---
title: Elephants in Mole National Park
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-12-03T10:50:02+00:00
url: /2009/12/03/elephants-in-mole-national-park/

---
Monday afternoon we arrived in Mole, much relieved to have a real hotel room with power and mostly running water, a swimming pool, and a restaurant included.  We ordered some Western food for dinner and relaxed after a night of roughing it at the Hippo Sanctuary and a long day of driving.  The next morning we went on the 7am safari with our trusty guide, Yao.  Yao hopped in our 4&#215;4 and pointed us along paths where he thought we could see the most animals.  We saw 2 types of antelope, baboons, monkeys, a crocodile, warthogs, and lots of birds but no elephant.  We drove for an hour and got out and walked around for another hour.  We told Yao we wanted to see an elephant before we left, and he promised us that he would take us out again if anyone spotted it.  Apparently elephant season is Feb-Aug but they had seen a few single males wandering around lately.  Two days ago one elephant came right up to the hotel restaurant!

After our 2 hour, elephant-less safari Jacob and I went back to the hotel for lunch and a swim in the wonderful pool.  The hotel has an amazing view over 2 watering holes and a large view of the park.  Warthogs regularly walked through the hotel grounds – Jacob and I had to walk right past one to get between it and the rooms, but it didn’t seem to mind us.  By the afternoon Jacob was determined to see an elephant so Alex, Yao and Jacob went out again in the car and on foot to track the elephant.  Before they set out, baboons were sitting around our 4&#215;4, and a few of the tried to attack Alex because he was eating a cracker.  The guide, Yao, shooed them away and the boys went looking for the elephant through a few mud holes and trails.

After about an hour another guide saw the elephant and called Yao, who called me to come running out to meet them.  I caught up with the combined tours, right next to the elephant in a group of trees.  We took tons of pictures and followed it through the trees into a clearing where we thought it might roll in the mud and play.  After a while, our group decided to go back to the hotel along a trail up a hill just past where the elephant was walking.   As we circled the elephant and headed towards the trail, the elephant cut us off and walked up the trail in front of us!  We followed a few yards behind him the whole way up the trail to the hotel.  He stopped to graze in a field by our rooms while we told the reception how close the elephant was.  The reception man ran around and excitedly told everyone who hadn’t gone on the afternoon safari to come see the elephant.

Because of our late tour, we ended up staying another night in the Mole Motel.  After our elephant encounter we were excited to see if he would come to the hotel for dinner too.  The elephant left around 4pm but we did have another great night of Western food.  We met Eric, a Dutch volunteer who was also volunteering for 4 months before he took a week off to see Ghana.  Apparently we’d been following each other and he was headed towards Tamale next, just like us.  We offered him a ride to Tamale and he was very excited not to take the 4am bus as he’d planned.