---
title: Christmas in Nashville
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-12-27T20:42:54+00:00
url: /2009/12/27/christmas-in-nashville/

---
Wednesday Mom and I flew from Wichita to Nashville to begin our Christmas season of eating.  We went straight over to Grandma&#8217;s (mom&#8217;s mother) and had dinner with Grandma, Aunt Margaret and my cousin Laura.  I showed them my photo album/ scrapbook of Ghana and regaled them with stories of eating strange things, Jacob&#8217;s goat buying adventure, and where I lived.  Thursday night Mom and I went to visit dad&#8217;s parents, Dana and Dada.  We had dinner and poured over my photos.

By Friday my brother, David, came in to town and also went straight to dinner at Grandma&#8217;s.  We continued our visit with friends and family over great dinners- Saturday night we went out with our friend Kacky Fell at Watermark.  Tuesday night Jacob got in to Nashville and the 2 of us met up with fellow Nashville Tulanians and friends Sam and Anabel.  Jacob and I got in from the airport surprisingly fast, and had about 2 hours to kill before we planned to meet up with Sam and Anabel, so we headed to Printer&#8217;s Ally for drinks beforehand.  After some quality time at Lonnie&#8217;s Western Lounge, the 4 of us headed to a wonderful dinner at Morton&#8217;s Steakhouse.  Logically, I had the tuna.  Wednesday night we again met up with Kacky to journey to one of the culinary meccas of downtown/ Germantown, the <a href="http://themadplatterrestaurant.com/#lunchstop" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Mad Platter</a>.  As usual, everything was wonderful.

On Christmas Eve we spent the afternoon and night at Dana and Dada&#8217;s house with all the Walkers and Osbornes.  My 2 cousins&#8217; children, Avery and Aubery, were the centers of most of the attention and entertainment. We had a great feast of hashbrown casserole, green bean casserole, corn, devilled/ dressed eggs, ham and country ham, biscuits,  candied yams, and fruit iced tea not to mention the strawberry and chocolate cakes for dessert.  Completely stuffed, we all sat down to open presents in a disorganized frenzy of wrapping paper.  Avery was the perfect height to rip open each gift with a little help from her dad, my cousin David.  She was so excited about each gift that she threw down the previous gift to open the next giant box.   I tried to play with her wooden block train but I got a very firm &#8220;don&#8217;t touch it!&#8221; every time I put my finger on it.  I was hoping to prepare her for her future younger sibling.  Later my brother David spent a solid 30 minutes chasing 2 1/2-year-old Avery around the house.  My cousins wanted to take David home to wear her out every night!

Christmas morning David, Mom, Jacob and I went with my Aunt Margaret to the long-term care hospital where my aunt works.  We were split up into teams and handed out Christmas gifts to all the patients in the &#8220;Blueberry Hill&#8221; wing of the hospital.  It was a wonderful start to the day to share some Christmas cheer with strangers.  After we finished we headed over to Grandma&#8217;s for another casserole-filled brunch.  My cousins Jude and Phil came with their 1 1/2 year old John Patrick.  JP loved Grandma&#8217;s new sweater and wore it over his head until he almost ran into the coffee table.  The cousins headed out to another family event, and we all split up until later that night.   Christmas night was the terrible Titans game, and we bemoaned the loss with more wonderful food, mulled wine, and snacks.

The day after Christmas I took Jacob to the airport for his flight back to Chicago.  Mom, Dad and I went over to Grandma&#8217;s to help her install a thermostat and finish up some leftovers.  Dad worked while Aunt Margaret, Mom, Grandma and I talked and cleaned up a bit.  Dad departed to do some more handy work with David at my Aunt Sheila&#8217;s house.  The girls stayed and chatted most of the afternoon about family lore, the War, and Grandma&#8217;s dating record.