---
title: 3 Days of Funeral and a Naming Ceremony
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-09-07T08:12:39+00:00
url: /2009/09/07/3-days-of-funeral-and-a-naming-ceremony/
---
## <span style="font-weight:normal;font-size:13px;">It’s like 3 Weddings and a Funeral, but Ghana style.</span>

Friday night was the first night of Ben’s mother’s funeral. It was essentially a wake and viewing.  The only thing is that she’s been dead since 1<sup>st</sup> August and she’s been sitting in a chair in her mother’s house, persevered.  Ben took us to see her and asked to take some pictures with her.  It was rather odd for us.

After we saw Ben’s mom, we went around the corner to Ben’s aunt’s liquor store/ bar.  They brought out the ubiquitous plastic chairs and a bench for us, and we drank a few beers and tried some local coco liqueur with Ben and 5 of his friends from high school.  We had a nice time talking to one of his friends who is originally from Togo (so he’s a francophone) and has taken marketing classes. We talked about marketing in the US and Ghana, where to travel in Ghana, and we answered some of the usual questions of where we’re from, what Americans are really like, and if we like Ghana.  Every Ghanaian we’ve met so far is very curious if we like Ghana, if the people are nice to us, where we’ve visited so far, and what’s different about Ghana and the US.  The last question is always the hardest to answer, but I like telling people about how great it is to buy things from street vendors when riding in tro-tros.  The people selling things next to the roads are like walking convenience stores selling everything- plantain chips, hard-boiled eggs, sponges, gum, toilet paper, coconuts, and ice cube trays, for example.

Saturday was the actual funeral and burial for Ben’s mom. Ben insisted that we got there, dressed in our newly made African clothes, at 9am. We arrived at his grandmother’s house to discover that there were only a few people there and Ben hadn’t left his house yet.  We sat, observed, and waited until things started to pick up around 11am.  By then Ben had come by, but he stayed busy handing out memorial programs and greeting family.  Groups of people constantly flowed in to view the body again, and groups included matching church groups, political party bands playing empty cans and water bottle-creation instruments, and family members.  When I thought things were going to quiet down for a service, Ben hurried us to see his mother one more time before they moved her to the coffin outside her room.  We walked in the tiny room again to find her laying on the bed, now dressed in white. One woman inside the room saw us, gave us a look, but then said “White lady, thank you!”  Although we stood out as the only Obroni at the service, I think Ben, his father, and the mourners appreciated that we came and even wore traditional African clothes.

We made our way back to our seats in the back and stopped to greet the chief (Ben’s dad) and shake hands with all the official mourners. After some words in Twi, they read the program in halting English, and moved her to the coffin.  The pall bearers put a board on their heads, and then lifted the coffin on top! They carried her out the road, but then a fight broke out.  We stood near Ben and his cousin, Nii, who kept us far from the scuffle.  Apparently the extended family members fought (physically) over where to bury her.  It seems like the Chief’s in-laws won and they carried her to her house, had what seemed like a water fight, and then buried her in the public cemetery. Ben and his family wanted her to be buried in the new, royal cemetery so their immediate family (and chiefs) could be buried together when they die.

Ben and Nii, along with the Chief, were quite preoccupied with the burial arrangements. Nii sat us down in a tent outside Ben’s house while they ran around and debated what to do about the situation. After a few minutes, Jacob and I realized they sat us in the tent reserved for Chiefs and Elders! We decided moving the the ‘regular people’ tent would cause more attention than staying, so we sampled the crackers, soda, and homemade wine people passed out to us as we waited for Ben and Nii to come back.

Around 4pm we snuck out and went back to our compound to change into bright clothes for the Naming Ceremony for Nimo’s baby.  Nimo, our landlord and the regional spiritual leader, just had a baby boy, and he and his wife, Princess, had a huge party to celebrate.  It was quite a different crowd than the funeral. People from the city drove cars, brought gift-wrapped presents, each table had bottles of liquor, and everyone wore bright cheerful colors. Nimo instructed us that it didn’t matter what we wore, as long as the colors were light. Nimo and other leaders had a short ceremony of pouring out libation (which in Ghana is always Schnapps), two men shot off blanks to symbolize the strength of the boy.  After that, we lined up for an excellent buffet of Ghanaian fare and danced to Ghanaian rap songs on repeat.  It reminded me of a short wedding- a quick ceremony and a long night of eating and dancing!