---
title: “Never Say Die”
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-09-14T09:05:41+00:00
url: /2009/09/14/never-say-die/

---
Last Sunday we received a new volunteer at VPWA. Anna is a teacher in training from Germany, and she&#8217;s teaching in Ghana for 3 weeks during her time in between teacher school and classroom training.  (Her training has more sophisticated names, but I&#8217;m paraphrasing&#8230; )

By the fourth day of teaching children who didn&#8217;t have books, using only the blackboard, and watching other teachers cane the kids Anna was worried she just couldn&#8217;t handle it. She was insecure about her English (which is actually great) but had to teach English, Science, Math and &#8216;Citizenship&#8217; to 10-12 year olds.  Anna admitted that by Thursday she wanted to change her flights and go home that weekend rather than teach Ghanaian style.  Jacob and I told her some stories from our friends in Teach For America who&#8217;ve dealt with some crazy situations and confrontations with students. Nimo, the volunteer director, Ben, Jacob and I tried to talk her into staying 2 more weeks, but by the next morning she&#8217;d called her airline and found another flight home.  We were sad to hear that she wanted to go, but we thought she would made a decision that was best for her.

Around 3pm when she came back from school Jacob and I were prepared to offer to ride down to the ticket office with her, but she burst in smiling that she&#8217;d decided to stay. We were very happy, and assured her that she&#8217;d made the right choice.  Apparently when Anna talked to the stern head mistress of the school the lady broke down in tears! Anna decided to stick with it for 2 more weeks and to teach how she wants rather than the way other teachers in the school teach.  The three of us celebrated by going off to Pokuase to find Ben and have a few drinks at Eric&#8217;s.

We stopped by Ben&#8217;s compound and had the usual reception of people finding chairs for us, greeting the Chief, and waiting around for Ben.  Ben&#8217;s father bought us beers, which were delivered by one of Ben&#8217;s younger brothers, and we sat and talked for a while.  The Chief was very excited to talk to Anna, who&#8217;d been travelling around Ghana with friends for the last 7 weeks.  Onaman Suro, the Chief, described places he&#8217;d travelled and shared stories about some of the sights.  I showed Ben and his family the pictures I&#8217;d taken from the funeral weekend, and they were excited to see that we&#8217;d enjoyed ourselves.  After our beers, we walked over to Eric&#8217;s where we met up with Ben&#8217;s cousin, Nii, and talked until late.

The next day we decided to have a Western day. No, not a cowboy theme party.  We left home around 1pm to attempt to make a 2.55pm movie.  We were 5 minutes late.  Jacob, Anna, and I took a tro-tro to the Accra Circle, where we could catch another tro-tro or cab to the Accra Mall and theatre.  As we got to the Circle, our tro-tro driver and mate insisted that they could drive us there directly if we waited longer.  Jacob and I feel like we have a somewhat good sense of the city now, but we deferred to the locals.  As we drove into the heart of a large market area in the center of the city, we were unsure and asked the driver if he was in fact heading to the Accra Mall.  Once we asked, the new passengers quickly confirmed what we thought- we were nowhere near the Mall.  I realized the driver thought by ‘mall’ we meant ‘market’ and drove us to the large market area, under a shop sign that said MALL.  We realized the error and rode back to Accra Circle (for free), where we caught a cab to the Mall.  After our little side trip, we got to the mall around 2.50pm.  We made our way to the theatre and found seats just as the previews for _<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkqzFUhGPJg" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Up</a>_ began.  The movie was so good- it was a nice escape. After the movie we capitalized on being in the Mall.  We went to the ATMs, ate hamburgers, found ice cream, and shopped a bit. In the Western supermarket Jacob and I bought the ingredients for his famous Swedish meatballs, which we planned for Sunday night dinner.

Sunday we slept in, and Jacob used some of our supermarket purchases to make his favorite breakfast creation: the Disaster.  He combined eggs, hamburger meat, potatoes, grilled onions, and some spices together in a pan.  The end result is not the most appealing looking, but it goes well with ketchup. Using our experience with tro-tro timing, we headed out around 1pm to go to the Hearts of Lions vs. Hearts of Oak club football match at 3pm.  We walked over to Ben and Nii&#8217;s compound to meet up with them, but of course we waited for a while, had a meal, sat for a while, and then took a cab to the stadium.

The game was very interesting partly because of how many fouls and errors the referees let the players get away with, and partly just for the people watching.  We sat with Hearts of Oak fans, who drummed and chanted for most of the entire game.  Ben and Nii are Hearts (of Oak) fans, and they explained that (Hearts of) Lions is the team of the rich people of Accra.  Most of the stadium was empty- there were probably only 100 or 150 people for the last league game of the season.  Sadly, Hearts had a poor showing and lost 3-2.  One thing I really liked about the team is their motto: &#8220;Phobia&#8221; or &#8220;Never Say Die.&#8221;

After a wild cab ride home, Jacob set to preparing his famous meatballs.