---
title: New Arrivals
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-10-19T14:22:06+00:00
url: /2009/10/19/new-arrivals/

---
In the last few weeks we’ve gotten 2 new volunteers, and therefore apartment mates.  Justine is French and she teaches school (French, of course).  Charles is our latest arrival. He’s British, and he and Hayford are starting a microfinance program in the village of Amasaman.

It’s so nice to have a native English speaker now! Sunday we showed Charles the exciting parts of Pokuase, the village we live in, and fed him foufou.  He told us it was the first time he’s ever eaten with his hands, which is impressive considering the amount of travelling he’s done.  Charles told us about his year of travelling with an around-the-world ticket. It sounds like he most enjoyed South America, India, and Southeast Asia.  His philosophy is to try everything that might be physically demanding, and therefore limiting with age, while still young.  He also plans to visit the locations that might change in the next 10 years and he will wait to travel to more developed locations until when he’s older and he has the money.  Jacob and I have been taking note of his advice and we’ve been using his experience for reference for potential future trips.

Sadly the power has been going out more frequently than normal, which destroys any hopes of doing work with computers in the microfinance office.  The plan is to for Charles and Hayford to lay the groundwork for their proposed lending program, then Ben and Charles will figure out the daily logistics of repayments, recording loans, and tracking clients.   So far, their idea is to give 50-100 GHC loans to women from the village who would use the money to begin independent ventures that could earn them a profit to sustain them and allow them to repay the loan, such as selling water or fruit on the roadside.  Hayford wants all of us to read _<a title="Banker to the Poor" href="http://www.amazon.com/Banker-Poor-Micro-Lending-Against-Poverty/dp/1586481983/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1256133346&sr=8-1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Banker to the Poor</a>_, the story of the man who practically invented microfinance.  The basic concept is to give incredibly poor women with craft or business skills enough money to buy their own supplies, make a profit, and then break the cycle of poverty.  Once the women make money they spend it on families, health, and education which helps the community and brings more and more people out of extreme poverty.   It’s a great concept in the book- it will be interesting to see how it translates to real life here in our villages!