---
title: 'Lithuania: the last Pagen European country, where the mullet is alive and well'
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-06-24T14:08:08+00:00
url: /2009/06/24/lithuania-the-last-pagen-european-country-where-the-mullet-is-alive-and-well/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Monday evening we arrived in Vilnius, Lithuania after a smelly 4 hour bus ride.  Both nations are in the EU, but have some border patrol apparently.  A solder stopped the bus to look at papers and passports- but when he looked at our US passports and our friends&#8217; UK passports, he quickly moved on like he didn&#8217;t want to bother to figure out how to examine them.  It also looked like it they stopped every 10th car on the road too.

Yesterday we started the day with a free walking tour of the city. Our guide explained that he enjoys giving an &#8216;alternative&#8217; tour. We started at the town hall, and met up with more travelers from all over. There were pairs of girls from Bulgaria, Greece, Spain and the Netherlands. Our first stop was by the town hall side, where there&#8217;s a plaque dedicated to a speech George W Bush made in 2002, where he said any enemy of Lithuania is an enemy of the US. Very interesting.

Next, we walked around to small sites in the city until we came to a small area surrounded by the river and a stream called Uzupis. Apparently, it&#8217;s an &#8216;independent state&#8217; within the city that consists of artist communities and an art museum.  Uzupis has it&#8217;s own flag, Constitution, and independence day. On April 1st, they check passports on the bridge that connects the area to the rest of the city, and either stamp passports or send you to the &#8216;bridge to nowhere&#8217; just down the road. The bridge to nowhere leads directly to the artists&#8217; house where there are beautiful murals, apartments and galleries in slightly dilapidated buildings.  They also had strange statues in the river and around the house, like a stone washing machine, a large lump of garlic dangling over the river, and Tibetan mountains in the stream.

Next, we hiked up a hill that overlooks the city. Apparently Vilnius was built on 7 hills, just like Rome and other large European cities.  From the hill, our guide showed us many of the cathedrals, Soviet buildings, and new post-Soviet constructions.  Since 2003, the financial district grew out of nothing. Before the downturn he said you could see at least 20 cranes from that hill either building new buildings or refurbishing old structures. We climbed down the &#8216;190 stairs&#8217; back to the path, and walked past an old castle that was impenetrable from at least 8 attacks in the 14th-17th centuries because of the steep hill and the ice or mud that would form on the sides.  Next we walked to the Soviet part of town, where the only 4 Soviet monuments in Lithuania remain on the Green Bridge.

After much walking in the 80 or 90 degree weather, we stopped at the Havana club. We all got somthing to drink after our hikes, and talked to the people in our groups.  One pair of girls met in college and we decided to check out the Midsummer festivities together that night.  Our guide told us about a big gathering in the woods on a hill outside the city, where Pagens still have rituals and giant bonfires.

We met up again at 8pm to get a drink and figure out how to get to our destination.  We decided a cab would be better that switching buses, and we arrived just as the activities were really starting. We walked a ways from where the cab couldn&#8217;t drive further, just following the hoards of people walking towards the park.  We entered the park and passed under a little doorway made of flowers and Oak leaves.  Once we were in we saw a giant bonfire and people dancing in rings around it to Polka-type music.  It wasn&#8217;t anything scary or ritualistic and we happily joined in the ring of dancers let by some little girls.  After one song, everyone began to dance a set dance, and Jacob and I attempted to follow along as the Spanish and Dutch friends made up their own dance. It was great fun to mix in with the dancers, and we were probably the only non-Lithuanians in the place.  
After some dancing, we found little tiki torches to light as the light went out of the sky around 11pm.  We light our torch on other torches and helped a family figure out how to light only the wick, and not to light the entire wooden torch.  They offered us a tiny amount of liquor in return, but it ended up being so potent we called it Firewater.  We sat under the opening of trees for a while, despite the sprinkles of rain.   At midnight, the music stopped and we decided to head back to the road to find a cab back. As we walked it rained more and more. Right as we found a cab and began the negotiations of prices, it started to pour so we all hoped in. Great timing. We said goodbye to our new friends and wished them luck on their travels to Riga and Russia and headed back to our hostel.