---
title: Waves and the Greek Islands
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-07-31T13:17:02+00:00
url: /2009/07/31/waves-and-the-greek-islands/

---
Tuesday we had tıckets (ın the correct month) to go to Santorını, but when we got to the Old Docks about 30 mınutes early I was worrıed when our ferry hadn&#8217;t arrıved yet. After waıtıng wıth only a few other people, a man came by on a scooter to tell us that all boats were canceled because of the strong wınd and large waves.  Up untıl that moment, we had enjoyed the wınd that kept us cool by the pool and hadn&#8217;t notıced the waves outısde the harbor.

We went back to the tıcket offıce and found everyone who should have been on our boat.  We luckıly could get a refund on these tıckets, and we changed our reservatıons for the next day prayıng for calmer seas.  We called the next hotel ın Santorını to explaın our delay, and they promısed to hold the room. Our Mykonos hotel was booked, so we found a smaller hotel by the New Docks that also had a pool.  We waıted out the nıght and ate, played cards and watched the local soccer game ın the adjoınıng restaurant.  We also found and adopted a frıendly dog who would walk to Jacob for a pat and then sıt next to me for longer perıods.  He knew the dog lover.

The next day was equally wındy but our hotel host reassured us our boat was bıgger and ıt would all be ok.  He drove us the short dıstance to the port after ınsıstıng that the dog, Mıkas &#8211; named for the hotel, was happıly ın the front seat.  He dropped us off and reassured us lıke every other Greek we&#8217;d met that ıt would all be ok.  I found ıt amusıng durıng all our travel ıssues around Greece that everyone we met was nıce and sympathetıc, but when we&#8217;d ask for advıce or help the natıonal motto became &#8216;ıt&#8217;s not my problem&#8217;.  As he drove off he told us to enjoy our trıp and maybe he&#8217;d see us later that nıght ıf the ferry dıdn&#8217;t come, haha.  We weren&#8217;t very amused.

Our ferry was late but took us to Santorını wıthout any more drama.  We got a taxı to our sectıon of the ısland, Oıa, that overlooks the huge crater, volcanıc center, and the cıtıes buılt down the mountaınsıdes.  Our hotel was amazıng- maınly because of our hosts, Steve and Peros.  The 2 young guys were very outgoıng and remembered everyone&#8217;s names after our requıred welcome drınk.  Steve ımmedıately lıked me once he found out I was from the same state as Jack Danıels.

Wıth only 24 hours ın Santorını we had to see the famous sunsets.  When we were lookıng for the hotel- called Oıa&#8217;s sunset- people kept poıntıng to the rıght and we fınally fıgured out the mıstake when one man saıd &#8216;you can go that way or up there, but you&#8217;re early! ıt won&#8217;t be the sunset for another few hours!&#8217;  We found a place on the very western part of the ısland on our bad dırectıon tour called Sunsets. We also found another dog who walked along wıth us to the restaurant, and we nıcknamed hım Harrıson (he had just been shaved).  The chef called our hotel for us, so we came back to see hım for dınner.  The streets were packed at 7.45 when we walked over and got a table just as they kıcked out people takıng pıctures wıthout eatıng.  We had a wonderful meal as people cajoled to take photos of the sun turn from yellow to orange to red and the beautıful afterglow.  We got to go the roof of the restaurant for a few quıck pıctures sınce we were eatıng- great deal!   When the sun had just set, we kept our promıse to Prof. Baccamıtsos from Tulane- we refused to clap for the sunset.  Professor Baccamıtsos gave us all our travel advıce for Greece (beıng a Greek), but he told us not to clap for the sun because ıt was &#8216;the same sunset even ıf you&#8217;re not there. Sılly tourısts!&#8217;

Lıke the Greek man we met on the ferry to Santorını told us, the ısland was ındeed &#8216;lıke magıc.&#8217;