---
title: Bucharest, Romania
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-07-15T09:50:41+00:00
url: /2009/07/15/bucharest-romania/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
After our long train ride from Budapest to Bucharest, Romania we checked into the brand new [East Hostel][1] near the train station.  We recuperated for a bit and then went out to dinner and had some more meat-filled local food.  It will be nice to eat fruits again someday&#8230;

The next day, Tuesday, we walked through most of the city towards the Museum of the Romanian Peasant.  On our way, we saw an interesting cross-section of the city.  Near our hostel is very quiet during the day, and some of the buildings seem completely empty, some are only shells of destroyed buildings, and some are normal office and apartment buildings.  As we got closer to the city center and downtown, the buildings were nicer and actually occupied.  Throughout Bucharest we noticed wild dogs, homeless people, and people selling odd things like packs of Nike or Adidas socks, beans, or used shoes.  It&#8217;s a bit of a difference coming from pristine cities like Paris, but not too wild or shocking after seeing older parts of Budapest, Warsaw, and Bratislava.  Bucharest is more like my gloomy expectations of all of post-communist Eastern Europe.  Romania did have several uprisings during the Soviet era and afterwards with Romanian megalomaniac Nicolae Ceauşescu.   The city seems to be very slowly rebuilding and opening up to tourists and businesses- now I have an answer for all the people who ask my favorite question, &#8220;so how _is_ New Orleans?&#8221;  I can safely tell them it&#8217;s getting rebuilt much faster and more strategically than Bucharest.

The Museum of the Peasant was interesting in content and style. Apparently it&#8217;s won awards for the best new museum because of the different subject and the layout.  The museum bought houses, 3 churches, and countless outfits, shoes, religious icons, bowls, and artifacts from Romanian peasants as their towns modernized and old relatives died.  There is one room set up exactly like someone&#8217;s peasant grandmother&#8217;s kitchen with modern prescription pills, reused jelly jars, and old paper dolls cut out of newspapers from the 60s.  Another room has an entire windmill with pictures of the town, people who worked in the mill, and samples of the wool products.  Some of the displays were set up so you walk over artifacts set into the floors, and other places have ramps where you walk over the original village house.  One of the churches they bought had a Roman tombstone, flipped it upside down, and used it as the alter pedestal in the Eastern Orthodox church.  There weren&#8217;t many written guides or labels, and apparently the point was to wander through the artifacts &#8216;like a stroll in a garden&#8217;.

Next we went to the Parliament Palace, the second largest building in the world after the Pentagon. We made an appointment through our hostel host and started our tour at 3pm.  We started by giving up some form of ID and going through a metal detector to enter, and then learned we weren&#8217;t going to visit any of the rooms actually used by the parliament.  We weren&#8217;t allowed to take pictures without special photo tickets, but we got in for free with our Tulane IDs. The communist leader of Romania in the 1980s was a power-hungry man who wanted the largest palace in the world, and planned and constructed the building.  Nicolae Ceauşescu created the position of president for himself, and also appointed his wife and children to important posts. He never got to use the building because by the late 80s communism was falling apart and Romanian people were extremely fed up with Ceauşescu. The people ran the family out of town and eventually killed Nicolae Ceauşescu and his wife in 1989. We walked through huge hallways and meeting rooms they now use for business and international receptions and conferences.  Jacob and I decided if we ever had to have meetings with giants, we&#8217;d host them in Bucharest.

The tour was disappointingly short and not through, but it was free.  The best part was the balcony overlooking the planned part of the city which includes 4-5 grandiose buildings intended to house all the government ministries and the legislators across the street from Parliament.  Nicolae Ceauşescu also built a huge boulevard, 3 meters wider than the Champs Elysee, leading from the palace though town.  After the tour we strolled down the Boulevard and found a pizza and pasta restaurant.  Our hosts give good advice, but they led us to very touristy restaurants so we decided pizza is acceptable after all our &#8216;authentic&#8217; restaurants.  It was dinner and a show- as we sat outside we watched people walk by and the restaurant security guard fend off 2 persistent beggars/ drunks. While tussling with one drunk guy the guard even sprayed himself in the face with mace.  It was quite entertaining from the distance.

We&#8217;re in Bucharest for the day and bought tickets for another night train to Sofia, Bulgaria. Our host suggested we skip the Black Sea and go to a lake in Macedonia.  She knows a lady who has guesthouses, and she called ahead for us.  It will be a fun addition to our trip.

 [1]: http://www.easthostel.com/