---
title: Hippo Spotting
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-12-01T10:47:33+00:00
url: /2009/12/01/hippo-spotting/

---
Sunday morning we drove from Wenchi to Bui National Park.  All of the guides told us Bui is seldom-visited since it is close to the popular Mole National Park and the road to is was recently paved.  Theoretically, it has lions, antelope, monkeys, and rumors of an unsighted pigmy tribe but all we could see were the hippos.  We found the little town of Bui mostly by chance, and the park ranger was “off farming” when we arrived.  Everyone told us to wait while they tried unsuccessfully to reach the main ranger.  Apparently he was the only one who could go with us or give us any information.  Jacob badgered one of the nearby men until he went and found one of the junior rangers to escort us into the park. The ranger emerged a few minutes later, clearly just putting on his uniform.  He explained there was nothing we could see since the grasses are so tall, but we could go out with some fishermen to try to see hippos.

We drove a few more minutes to another village, where we were met by another guide, Paul.  Paul told us the park fares, and then took us to a few local fishermen and their canoes.  The fishermen put us in 2 canoes, and we paddled along the Black Volta in search of hippos.  We paddled along and checked all the fishermen’s lines on the way- Jacob almost caught a big fish before it swam away.  After about 20 minutes we came up on 2 heads sticking out of the water.  All we could see for a while were little hippo ears. Our guide told us there were actually 4 hippos, and eventually I could tell when each one came up for air.  One of the 4 was a baby hippo, so we were careful not to anger the momma hippo by getting too close.

We paddled back to the shore, climbed back to the village, drove to Bui and then drove out of the National Park.  At the main road, there is a new gate for a dam project in the Bui area, and Paul told us that we could cut through the dam site rather than drive all the way back to Wenchi.  We waited until the noon explosions went off, then the guards ushered us and a trotro through the gates.  We picked up a dam construction worker who guided us past the site for the giant dam, and then dropped him off at this work site.  It was amazing to be allowed into such a giant construction site without much ado.  Sadly the project should be finished in 2011, and they predict a majority of Bui National Park will be flooded.  The fishermen and the guides seemed rather calm about the prospect of losing their homes and livelihoods to the dam, but they were confident that the government would relocate them and the power generated by the dam would help Ghana.

With our shortcut though the dam site, we saved a lot of time, so we changed our plans from going to Mole National Park next to the Wechiau Hippo Sanctuary then on to Mole.  Alex was much happier at the idea of traveling in one direction and cutting down the amounts of rough roads.  By about 3pm we arrived in the village of Wechiau, checked in with the sanctuary office, shopped in the market for a few things for dinner, and drove into the actual sanctuary community with our guide.  We arrived at a group of low, mud buildings that would be our home for the night.  It had neither power nor running water and we were responsible for our own cooking.  Jacob cooked our dinner of pasta and tomato sauce on a little outdoor charcoal grill before the sun went down while our guide and I set up mattresses and a mosquito net on the roof.  After dinner Jacob and I attempted to sleep on the roof, but no one warned us how cold it would get! We went inside in the middle of the night but woke up at 6am to go on our hippo tour.

By 6.30am Jacob, Alex, and I packed up and drove with our guide to the Black Volta River.  On the way we picked up another local who found paddles and a canoe for us on the banks of the river.  With our life jackets for safety, we set out on the chilly river to look for hippos.  The guide at Bui National Park told us the Wechiau Sanctuary only had 4 hippos total and tried to talk us out of going, but within about 10 minutes we saw 3 hippos in the river. Maybe because we had on life jackets this time we got much closer to the hippos.  Our guide and paddler took us by 8 hippos within just an hour, including another baby and mother combo.  He mentioned that the other side of the river was Burkina Faso and Jacob and I really wanted to go set foot on the other bank to technically have entered BF.  It wasn’t very exciting but we did take a picture in our awesome life jackets as proof.

Our tour finished by 8.30am, so with plenty of time we drove out of the sanctuary and back towards Wenchi until the turnoff for Mole National Park.