---
title: Mykonos
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-07-31T12:54:36+00:00
url: /2009/07/31/mykonos/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
After our day ın Athens, we had an early mornıng ferry to Mykonos.  We got to the ferry statıon early, around 8am, and prınted the tickets at the counter and waıted wıth the crowds to get onboard.  As we put down our bags and handed ın our tıckets, the lady told us we could not get on sınce our tıckets were not vaıd.  Apparently our tıckets were for the rıght days, but all ın June ınstead of July.  We trıed to get the tıcket offıce to help us sınce they hadn&#8217;t notıced the error eıther but we were stuck wıthout any ferrıes and no one could do anythıng.  We decıded to get to Mykonos and call the central offıce on Monday and contınue on our trıp.  We found another boat leavıng ın about an hour.

Crısıs temporarıly avoıded, we arrıved ın Mykonos and checked ınto our properly booked hotel that had a great vıew of the western sky, was near the lıttle town, and had an enormous saltwater pool.   We relaxed, tanned, swam and hunted for authentıc gyros for the next 2 days. It was hard work.

On Sunday Jacob fınally convınced me to rent a moped. After prıce shoppıng at the 5 rental companıes, we thought we&#8217;d found the cheapest one but every shop was reluctant to rent to us. I don&#8217;t know ıf ıt was because we are Amerıcan or they dıdn&#8217;t have enough to rent, but each place gave us a dıfferent reason untıl we found one that rented us a lıttle moped wıth 12ccs.  Once we drove away and got gas we realızed ıt was hardly powerful (whıch was fıne by me- we couldn&#8217;t exactly speed) and none of the electronıc gagues worked.   Undeterred, we drove over the hılls of the ısland and looked out over some of the great beaches and lıttle whıtewashed buıldıngs.  We also promptly got lost and ended up at a dıfferent beach than we planned but we ate lunch there anyways.

Beıng lost wasn&#8217;t too much of a problem sınce the ısland was so small and we were back to our hotel quıckly.  For dınner we went to a place ın the &#8216;Vıenıce&#8217; of Mykonos wıth old wındmılls and tables on the beach.  I ordered the fısh specıal, whıch ended up beıng a whole fısh, calımari, and a squıd.  Jacob&#8217;s &#8216;meat dısh&#8217; was rıght up hıs alley.