---
title: The Volta Region
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-11-11T15:01:41+00:00
url: /2009/11/11/the-volta-region/

---
Saturday and Sunday Charlie, Jacob and I headed east to visit the Volta Region. Volta supposedly has the tallest mountain in Ghana and/or West Africa, the highest waterfalls in Ghana and/or West Africa and the oldest tree in West Africa but of course no one agrees on the exact figures. I’m sure Nigerians claim all of the same things. It was a weekend full of driving, which was either a great or terrible decision on our parts. We called Emmanuel, a cab driver who lives in Accra and occasionally drives us to work, and he eagerly accepted the challenge. During our drive we found out good and bad things about him- he speaks Ewe, the local Volta language, but he had never driven his tiny Daewoo outside of Accra before. He was a fun addition to our tour and he even went with us to see all the region’s sights.

Our voyage got off to many misadventures. On our way out of the city, Emmanuel took every back road and side street to avoid traffic, yet I think we ended up driving more than if we’d just sat in the traffic on the main roads. Next, he drove through Tema which is about 30 minutes out of the way. On the Accra-Tema motorway we ran out of gas. Apparently Emmanuel hadn’t checked his fuel gauge. We waited with the car for about 40 minutes while Emmanuel took tro-tros to get gas. Slightly refuelled, we hit the road again and headed toward a bead factory, a monkey sanctuary, the Volta dam, and the town of Hohoe listed in our Brandt guidebook.

By the end of the trip we called the Brandt guide the “book of lies”. The bead factory was actually on another road, and the bead store listed looked like it hadn’t been open since the guide was published in 2007. We did find a new store open, the Cedi Bead Factory Annex. We bought a few beads and got information on how to get to the real deal on the way back to Accra. Throughout our weekend we discovered a few bits of misinformation from Brandt- the village where we needed to turn near was spelled wrong, the hotels were far from ‘spacious’ or ‘clean’, and the opening hours of everything were wrong.

Emmanuel had exhausted his directional knowledge around the Volta lake dam, and we began asking for directions and suggestions for a place to eat lunch near the dam. We found the Volta Hotel, which had wonderful Western food and a view of the largest man-made dam in West Africa (I tend to believe Ghana on this claim, since the hydroelectric dam powers most of West Africa).

After lunch I was the eyes of the operation, and I spotted a group of people weaving kente cloth by the roadside. Like everything else we were looking for, we drove by it first. We got a quick informal tour around the open-air “factory” and Jacob and I bought some cloth. It was very interesting to see how people wove the long strings of bright cloth together to make the traditional fabric of leaders and chiefs. Also along the way a group of baboons ran across the road in front of us. Right after that we drove past Justine, our French VPWA volunteer and her boyfriend! They had just walked around a nature reserve and we drove by them just as they were finishing.

Back in the Daewoo, we drove toward Hohoe. Originally we’d planned to see the bead factory, see the dam, and visit a monkey sanctuary in the morning and get into Hohoe around 6pm. We were only past the lake by 4pm, when the Brandt guide told us the monkeys went to sleep. We decided to see the bead factory and monkeys on the way back since it was getting dark and we had several miles to go to Hohoe. Unfortunately, right after it got dark we were in a sudden rainstorm and the little Daewoo engine got wet. The car died in the middle of a little dirt stretch and the few cars on the road all passed us. For a while I seriously thought we’d either have to push the car through the rain or sleep there for the night. Luckily, the rain stopped as quickly as it began and the car started back up again after a few tries. We were all glad to be alive and moving, and we pressed on to Hohoe. We finally got in around 7pm, found a rather shabby hotel and ate dinner.

The hotel was listed as “formerly the best hotel in Hohoe” in our Book of Lies. What an understatement! The nice rooms we looked at supposedly had air conditioning, but the electricity wasn’t strong enough to keep the light bulbs lit, much less power a fan or air conditioning unit. The bathrooms were equally horrendous, but in the morning we were excited to see the purported “view of the river”. It turned out to be a muddy stream. Thanks, Brandt.

Sunday morning we went straight to the Wli waterfall. After another drive down dirt roads, we entered the little cluster of villages of Wli. In the main village we got a guide to take us on the 45-minute hike to the falls. He power walked ahead of us and took us up an intense 10 minute side trip to see a view of the upper falls. We hiked in to the lower falls and the pool at the bottom. The view was amazing and the spray felt wonderful after our long walk. The boys waded into the chilly water and tried to touch the rock wall behind the fall but they couldn’t move further because of the power of the water. I tried to take a photo of them in the falls but they look like ants compared to the tons of misty water around them.

We hiked back to the village and our cab and bought a few bananas for our next stop at the monkey sanctuary. When we got to Tafi Atome it was about 1pm and we were worried there wouldn’t be any monkeys about since Brandt told us to visit before 8am or after 4pm. Our monkey guide, also named Emmanuel, was outraged that we thought there wouldn’t be monkeys. Apparently the monkeys are very friendly and the Brandt guide has been keeping potential visitors away. We struck off into the woods to find monkeys, and after 5 minutes one emerged right next to our path. Charlie was so intent on taking a photo that he didn’t notice the 3 monkeys right next to his head. Within seconds we were surrounded by about 100 monkeys eager to get a banana. Emmanuel went first, demonstrating how to firmly hold the banana out to let the monkeys peel and eat it out of our hands. We each got a turn feeling them, and the king monkey went after my banana. He bullied all the smaller ones out of the way and snatched half of it before I could hold it tightly. After their banana fest, we walked a little further to see the 2nd of the 4 groups of monkeys, each with their own king.  
By total chance, we ran into 2 Finish girls we’d met at Big Milly’s hostel a few weeks ago. They had just been to the dam and waterfall also and they were spending the night at Tafi Atome to see the monkeys in the morning. We had lunch with them in a chop bar down the street, and then bid them farewell as we headed off toward the bead factory. We drove past the dreaded breakdown spot from the night before, along the mountains and past the dam. The Cedi Bead Factory ended up being rather hard to find, and their directions were as bad as the Brandt guide. Stopping every few hundred meters to ask for directions, we finally found it down a back road off of our main road to Accra. It was already dark and getting late, but Mr. Cedi showed us around and gave us a quick bead making demonstration.

We were all very ready to get back to Accra, but on the terribly bumpy road near our compound Emmanuel’s car hit a giant rock. We swore we heard something fall off the car. I was mentally preparing to walk home from there, but Emmanuel couldn’t find anything wrong on the front of his cab. Charlie, Jacob and I were so glad to be home that we were almost delirious when we got to our apartment. Hayford came by to see how our trip was, and we must have been a sight. We hadn’t dared shower at the gross hotel and almost 2 full days in Emmanuel’s tiny cab had made us loopy. We laughed at everything he said and Charlie even made Hayford chase a giant lizard out of his room.

Monday, Jacob and I needed a ride to take our passports to the Brazilian embassy. After a bit of a debate, we called Emmanuel. He was happy to take us in his slightly worse for wear cab. As I got in I noticed his Taxi Cab light was missing from the roof of the car- the case of the missing piece of the car is solved!