---
title: Paris
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-06-20T19:09:38+00:00
url: /2009/06/20/paris/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
We spent a few short days in Paris to meet up with my mom and dad. We got in on Wed and flew out Fri afternoon. When we got in on Wed we got in touch with a girl who sublet her apartment in the 5th arrondisment of Paris, near the Pantheon and the Sorbonne in the Latin Quarter.  It was a nice little studio apartment with a mini kitchen and a small bathroom, but much larger than our last hotel!

Arranging the apartment that day was one of the hardest parts of traveling so far. Our unlocked (and probably stolen) phone was out of the balanace on our British SIM card, so we couldn&#8217;t call our hostess, but we tried to text her and answered every other call from her. Some evangelists were canvassing the building, and let us in the lobby/ staircase to wait for her. Once she showed up 30 min after she told us she&#8217;d let us in, we had to wait 10 min for her to clean.  After another 30 minutes, she exchanged her key for a deposit she promised to get back to us before our flight. It was disorganized, but we ended up getting the deposit back right before we left for the airport.

Wed afternoon we met up with mom after her day of touring the city, and we walked around the Tuilleries garden and the Louvre until Dad came back from the airshow.  We got to visit for a while before we headed off to dinner with some other work friends.  It was a great food and a nice evening.

The next day we went to the airshow and toured the static display &#8211; thanks to Dad&#8217;s offer of free lunch to the American soldiers, we got to tour the Patriot missile up close.  We watched the airplanes fly after another great (and free) meal. Even after seening maybe 4-5 airshows it still amazes me to see fighters, airliners, and military jets do stunts and fly with such grace.  Flight is definiately one of man&#8217;s greatest feats.