---
title: Casual Friday
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-08-28T15:33:01+00:00
url: /2009/08/28/casual-friday/

---
Today Jacob and I are &#8216;working from home&#8217; or spending time in the compound doing work for <a href="http://www.vpwa.org" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">VPWA </a>rather than our job.  We&#8217;re working on making about 3 grant proposals at once.  Jacob tends to work on the financial parts, and I do more of the writing.  We&#8217;re also working on generating articles for a health magazine in Ghana, aimed at spreading news about diseases, women&#8217;s health, nutrition, and other topics for the general public.  If you know anyone who could write an article, <a href="margaret.m.walker@gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">let us know</a>!

Yesterday afternoon at work was quite entertaining.  After lunch, which only Jacob and I take, everyone was standing outside on our 2nd story balcony.  Apparently BossMan was busy, so the other 3 guys were outside talking and skirking duties. I felt bad for not working, but the AC inside felt especially cold. We stood with the guys and talked about soccer leagues and players, taught them TIA (This Is Africa- a line from _Blood Diamond),_ explained how American movies aren&#8217;t actually real, and so on.  We spent a while convincing one guy that WWE is not actually real wresting. He was convinced that people got hurt because they &#8216;go to the hospital&#8217; and other obviously phony things on the show.  I think we shatered his concepts of reality.  We were talking and joking around when Jacob mentioned he could use more work pants. The guys were telling him what marketing to go to when a guy walked by selling pants.  He was just walking down the side of the road below us, holding about 10 pairs of men&#8217;s and women&#8217;s pants.  They called him up and he magically produced a pair of pants that fit Jacob perfectly! The guys helped haggle the price down (haggling is a must- our director told us to begin bargaining with half of what they offer, as a rule of thumb). Jacob ended up buying them for 4 Cedi, or less than $3, and the guy promised to come back Monday with a pair in black. What a deal!

Needless to say, no one did anything productive for the rest of the day.  One of the guys was an intern going back to school in the US next week. We wached his final presentation and gave him pointers for obnoxious crowd members who might act like the other guys in the office were acting.  Even BossMan thought the production was hilarious.

We caught an new tro-tro route home, this time stopping at a more popular junction and switching tro-tro rather than waiting for a packed tro-tro all the way to Pokuase.  For some reason, figuring out the city layout has been a bit difficult for us.  We now know that we live in a far suburb, and work must be in a outer section of the city proper.  I know what &#8216;downtown&#8217;, the tourist sections, Oxford Street,  and central city look like but I still have no idea how to get there without help.

In a few minutes Jacob will go to soccer practice to coach the boys before their big game tomorrow.  If it&#8217;s anything like last week&#8217;s game it will be an all day afair.  Last week we went with our friend Ben, who told us to meet him at his house at 11am.  We walked over around 11, and found him doing housework with other people in his compound. We waited for him to finish, and we left there around 12.  The game was either 12 or 1pm, we weren&#8217;t completely sure what the players told us.  We took a tro-tro to the part of town where the game was, but the main field was being used for a ceremony.  We waited about 30 minutes for the team to get there (apparently they walked!) to show us where to go.  After another 30 minutes of walking and setting up, the game started around 2.30pm. We played an under 12 game, and then another under 17 game.  Sadly, we lost both. I think it was in part because the referees were both players on the other team!  We walked back and got to Pokuase by 5pm.  Ben insisited that we meet more of his relatives and walk around his part of the village, and we finally got home around 7pm.