---
title: Paga and Bolgatanga in the Far North
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-12-04T10:51:47+00:00
url: /2009/12/04/paga-and-bolgatanga-in-the-far-north/

---
Wednesday morning Jacob, our new Dutch friend Eric, and I set off with our driver, Alex, to the far north of Ghana. The road from Mole to Tamale was pretty treacherous and it alone took us 2 hours.  We made up for lost time on the paved roads, and we got in to Tamale by about noon.  We stopped for lunch at a chop bar in the bus station, where we had pretty decent foufou with light soup, banku with okru stew and fried rice.  Eric was hoping to get a trotro or a bus north to Bolgatanga from Tamale, but Jacob and I insisted he stay with us since we were going to Bolga also.  We made Bolga so quickly that we decided to check in to our guesthouse in Bolga, then continue north to Paga for the afternoon.

Paga is on the northern border with Burkina Faso, and it supposedly has some of the best tourists sights.  We started with the crocodile ponds, where we paid about 8GHC each to sit on a live crocodile.  The locals were very pushy asking us to buy things from the pond, ride a horse, tour the slave forts, and so on all while other people yelled at each of us “sit on it! Hold the tail! Take more photos!”  It was confusing and a bit frustrating when we were held up talking to one “guide” about other things he was trying to sell us while another one yelled at us to hurry up and come to the pond to see the crocs.

Jacob, Eric and I took turns sitting on the largest and oldest crocodile near the pond.  We took pictures and joked that it wasn’t really alive since it hadn’t moved the whole time we were there.

Next, we paid 3 GHC per live chicken to feed to the group of crocs that had gathered by the edge of the pond.  The guides took turns tossing the chickens at the crocs, who ungracefully chomped at them.  The croc we’d just been sitting on was first, and he quickly came alive and grabbed the chicken, ate it and lumbered off into the pond in one swift movement.  The other 2 chickens went more slowly since the next 2 crocs missed the birds, made weird popping sounds with their jaws, and then grabbed the chickens before they ran away.  Our last chicken was the most entertaining, since the guides tossed it at one croc 3 times before he finally could grab it.  Each time the croc missed the chicken the bird recovered and ran away.  The guides caught it with a stick and scooped it back up by its feet, only to be tossed and missed again.  The third toss went right to the intended croc, but instead of running after the bird the croc started going after the guide! It seemed like all bets were off at that point, and the guides ran away from the water yelling at us to get back.  The croc didn’t chase him far, and another guide bopped it on the nose before giving it the chicken again.  Satisfied with our show, we were off to the next sight.

We drove a bit down the road to Paga Pio’s Palace, where a group of guys raced each other on bikes to be our “guide” for the area.  The first one appointed himself the official guide, and gave us a brief rundown of the supposed history of the palace. The painted mud huts were apparently built in the 1800s by a chief who had a special bond with the crocodiles of the area.  He decorated his palace with croc paintings, and performed sacrifices to keep his totems happy.  Inside the group of buildings were several low mud huts used as hiding places for people running away from salve hunters.  The huts were cleverly designed with an opening only about 2 feet tall and a little wall just inside so that people running in would have to duck, exposing their heads to the runaways crouched inside with sticks.  Further inside was another compartment where the women could hide and prepare meals for the fugatives while they guarded the entrance.  Our guide was rather adamant about how the women would do anything to help the men and made sure they were fed first.  Our tour rapidly deteriorated inside the hut when the guide asked for a totally different amount of money away from the other competing guides.  We had quite a debate with him, and ended up paying him 3 GHC less than his ridiculous price mostly just to be able to leave the pushy town of Paga.  Obviously, we passed on the slave forts since we were sick of the hassle and doubtful about how historic the tour would turn out to be.



Back in Bolga, Jacob and I made our own dinner in the courtyard of the guesthouse while Eric went out for some more fried rice.  We met up with him later for a beer by the roadside.  We talked about our favorite things about Ghana and what we think might or might not change.  Comparing the north and the south around Accra was very interesting.  In the north estimates say that most people live on about 1-2 GHC per day, while we’ve found some people in Accra living on at least 50 GHC per month.  The cultures of the regions are quite different since most northern Ghanaians cannot afford bikes or 1.5GHC beers while the flashy Ghanaians in Accra go out to nightclubs that cost $100 a year memberships and drive new Mercedes. In the south, most Ghanaians are Christians or some combination of evangelical Christianity and traditional beliefs while Muslims live in separate sections of town.  Driving through the north it was clearly Muslim dominated but all the churches I saw seemed to be Catholic.  Hayford tells us there are far more NGOs in the north of Ghana, and most of the roadside advertisements were signs promoting HIV/AIDS awareness, fighting stigmas of homelessness and mental illness, and instructions for coping with water-born threats such as Guiana worms.  The billboards in Accra all seem to promote beers, cooking ingredients like Maggi or canned tomatoes, or Ghanaian and Nigerian movies.  I’m impressed how well such different cultures coexist in Ghana, and I’m hopeful that other African nations can have the unity and national pride all Ghanaians seem to have.