---
title: A quick trip to Tema
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-11-12T16:05:37+00:00
url: /2009/11/12/a-quick-trip-to-tema/


---
Yesterday Jacob and I went on an unsuccessful voyage to Tema with Ben. His father Nii Onamansoro, the chief of Pokuase, works in a textile factory in the industrial port city next to Accra. We were hoping to see the factory, but apparently tours are only open from June-October and they are especially busy now because of Christmas. We went along anyways hoping to buy some fabric in the factory store (at employee prices, oh boy!). It appears there was a bit of a communication issue with Ben and his father, and we ended up waiting until Onamansoro finished work at 6pm, then we caught rides home together. The trip wasn’t a total bust though. I saw some funny and typically Ghanaian moments along the way.  
As we waited for Ben to meet us by our work at ABC Junction, we stood by a broken down 18-wheeler truck to catch a tro-tro. The 2 drivers were sprawled out on a thin carpet underneath the bed of the truck, completely asleep. They didn’t seem to mind the loud traffic, tro-tro mates yelling destinations, people walking around, or the construction work down the road. I have to admire the Ghanaian ability to sleep anywhere. I joke about Mom and Jacob being on an “Olympic sleeping team” for their ability to fall asleep (through takeoff on airplanes) but Ghanaians would undoubtedly always take the Gold medal.  
On our way back we got a ride to Achimota, but then we had to find a cab the rest of the way back to Pokuase. Once we’d negotiated a driver down to GHC 6, he took all the back roads behind where we work. Most cabs and trotros take back roads to avoid the dust and traffic, but I’ve also noticed a few illegal tro-tros go this route to avoid police stops. I wasn’t worried until we can out at a junction with the main road right next to a police officer. Ghanaian police officers are particularly scary at night since they 1) man checkpoints at night 2) carry rifles and 3) blend in with their dark blue uniforms. The police officer quickly looked through the cab and said something in Twi to our driver. All I understood was “license” and I got worried. But right after the little exchange Ben, his dad and the cab driver laughed. Apparently the driver and the cop were friends and were joking around. The cop sauntered away, and we began negotiating the traffic in the junction. To continue the joke, our driver slowly drove up right behind the cop as he walked toward the access road next to the main road. Our cabbie honked loudly, and the cop jumped and looked around frightened before he realized it was us again. It was hysterical and reminded me that there is little to fear in good-natured Ghana.