---
title: Working and Eating Our Way through Accra
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-08-26T14:51:39+00:00
url: /2009/08/26/working-and-eating-our-way-through-accra/

---
Today is our third day of work. Our company basically does travel agent type of services and hopes to expand into other types of travel and business middleman work.  On Monday, our boss gave us a rundown of what the company does and what he would like us to work on.  It sounds like we have 3 main projects so far: create a marketing plan, work on the website, and start calling Americans working in Accra to drum up business.

The marketing plan is to a business what a constitution is to a government (I always did well on SAT type analogies).  The business started and is operating without one, but it is vital to keep the company on track as far as what services to offer, how to attract and reach customers, and how to plan for future services.  Jacob and I started by researching competition and getting to know the company, but it seems like it will be a bit of a process.  Our boss seems to like the idea of offering every service possible from event planning to selling airline tickets and even mentioned taking over floundering hotels to teach them how to manage tourists.  We’re working on a few tactful ways of telling him not to overstretch the company too quickly and stick to what the business is successful with.

For the other two, BossMan wants us to add information to the new website, and find some American businesspeople to get customers to start using our company.   We’re focusing on the marketing plan first, since it seems more logical but finding customer should be interesting work.  Yesterday we proofed our business cards and even got to make up our titles- Jacob and I are now “marketing and finance consultant” and “marketing consultant” respectively. BossMan told us titles are very important in Ghana, and wanted us to pick something important sounding.

Work is quite different than what I expect from American or international firms.  Our volunteer director and BossMan genuinely want our advice and whatever skills we have.  It’s interesting to not be the low man on the totem pole in a new job. Plus, since we&#8217;re volunteers we get to set our hours, leave early, take lunch, and we practically manage ourselves.  Yesterday we both left early to get to soccer practice, but even with catching a tro-tro quickly we didn&#8217;t get there until there was only 30 minutes left in practice.  Jacob is going to start going on Tuesdays and Fridays, and we&#8217;ll go to Saturday games.

Earlier we went out on our regular lunch excursion with one of our coworker/interns.  Each day so far he&#8217;s led us to a restaurant near the office that has some type of Ghanian fare like Banku, fried rice with chicken or &#8216;meat&#8217;, peanut soup with rice balls, or Kelewele.  On the first day Jacob enjoyed the banku so much he wore some on his shirt (it&#8217;s a corn meal like substance in ball form that you dip pieces of in a spicy brown stew). Today we had fried rice with &#8216;club sandwiches&#8217; which were some type of meat with cole slaw on bread. Everything is completely foreign, but it has been tasty so far except for the chucks of whole tilapia fish served in some tomato sauses.  Ghanians eat all parts of the fish- scales, bones, and all except for the fins. Gross.