---
title: Light Outs
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-10-29T11:49:14+00:00
url: /2009/10/29/light-outs/

---
For the last 2 weeks (and coincidently ever since Charlie has come) the power has been rather unreliable.  2 weekends ago it was out for most of Saturday and Sunday, which we assumed was because of some work being done in the area.  We also theorized it was only in Pokuase, not all of Accra. Yet throughout the last 2 weeks the power will go out for a few hours at a time, most noticeably at night.  In our apartment it isn’t too bad- we just sit outside with Hayford and the other volunteers until it gets dark, then we move inside to avoid mosquitoes and eat dinner by candlelight.  Apparently, up until 3 or so years ago power outages were very common to the point of Ghanaians not even noticing. They have a cute TwiEnglish expression for power outages -“light outs.”

At work, our internet is unworkable without power so we are especially unproductive without lights.  Tuesday BossMan decided to capitalize on the all-day light out to drive to Winneba.  Our company has been invited to give a presentation to students at a teaching university in Winneba, about an hour and a half drive away.   The student representative who invited us has been a bit shady with the details, and BossMan wanted to investigate it for himself.  Unfortunately, he wanted to go right when Jacob was on the phone attempting to book tickets.  BossMan decided to leave Jacob but take me and another co-worker, Derrick.

On the drive to Winneba, Derrick and I talked about everything from the benefits of rap artists being shot (to sustain their reputation and boost record sales), the US healthcare debate, Ghanaian politics, and why the lights go out so much.  Once we arrived, we walked around to the 2 open-air lecture halls that will be our venue.  The student representative was apparently still rather unhelpful but they all spoke Twi the whole time.  On the way back BossMan apologized because he sometimes forgets I don’t speak Twi.

But on our drive back BossMan launched into tour guide mode (which was the frighteningly keyed up version we saw last Friday on our way to the beach) and he decided that I should see how they make the local moonshine/ gin and eat some non-Accra foufou.   We stopped on the side of the highway, where a family was making “Ghana gin”.  They explained that they crush sugar cane, strain out the liquid, let it sit in plastic bins, boil it in metal bins over an open fire, and capture the alcohol fumes through a tube which runs through a tank of water, which cools it into the liquid form of the super-strong alcohol.  Their procedures were clearly far from hygienic, but he let us try some out of the rusted tin that was collecting the gin as we spoke.  It was a strong, clear alcohol that burned all the way down but it did have a sweet pungent taste that made it palatable.  Further down the road we stopped for foufou, BossMan’s favourite.  They convinced me to try the ‘bush meat’ but  wouldn’t tell me what it was.  The meat was nice- not too fatty and an interesting mix of almost chicken and pork texture.

When I got home I asked Hayford what exactly it was I ate. He told me they call it a ‘<a href="http://www.modernghana.com/news/111952/1/keep-the-grasscutter-ill-have-the-beef-instead.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">grass cutter</a>’ and he could only describe it as “a small thing, it lives in the grass.”  I got out my Bradt guide to Ghana, which told me “you will most likely encounter the greater cane **rat.** It can grow up to 8kg, and lives in planes and elephant grass. It is reportedly very low in cholesterol.”  Delightful.  I had low-cholesterol [rat][1] for lunch.

 [1]: http://www.modernghana.com/news/111952/1/keep-the-grasscutter-ill-have-the-beef-instead.html