---
title: Akwaba!
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-08-23T12:01:11+00:00
url: /2009/08/23/akwaba/
---
After a few long flights from Nashville to Chicago, Chicago to London, and London to Accra, I arrived to find Jacob and our volunteer organization director. We went back to our compound on the outskirts of Accra, in a village/ suburb called Pokuase. Our compound is a walled group of apartments run by the landlord/ local high priest, Nemo.  Our apartment is in a set of rooms with a common hall/ dining room, kitchen, and bathroom.  Because of the misadventures of our frequently-visiting plumber, our water has been spotty.  There’s no air conditioning, but the ceiling fans are quite powerful and the weather isn’t actually that terrible. Our directors’ apartment/ office is the building next to ours, and we have breakfast and dinner made for us there every day.

As far as we know, we will be working for a marketing/ travel agency in town Monday- Thursday and in the VPWA office on Fridays.  Monday we will find out what exactly we’ll do at work and our director has us working on financial documents and press releases so far.  Jacob has also signed on to help coach the VPWA after-school soccer team on the other side of the village.  The boys are ages 6-18 and amazingly talented.  I help by watching. Saturday they had a game in another suburb area of Accra, and I was very entertained by the game as well as the swarms of children who came to see the white girl sitting by the field.

Ghana reminds me of the BVI with the constant glacial-paced construction, ‘African time&#8217; like &#8216;island time&#8217;,  friendly people, and occasional lack of essential things like water, power, etc.  There are some cool things too- you can buy random things from street vendors while riding in cars and the most popular form of transportation is the tro-tro, which is like a taxi+public bus jammed full of people constantly getting in and out. It costs us about 80 GHC cents (so like 57 USD cents) for both of us to get to work via tro-tro. The price of everything is just right. I think we spend less than $4 a day, even though we get charged a little more for being white/ tourists and we eat out more than locals.

We&#8217;re quite famous here.  Children follow us and yell &#8216;obruni! or &#8216;white person&#8217;!  Older people stare and sometime call us obruni, but we smile and wave &#8211; everyone thinks it&#8217;s so cool to wave at white people. If adults call us obruni we call back &#8216;obebeni!&#8217; or &#8216;black person&#8217; and they think it&#8217;s hilarious. They&#8217;re excited we know some Twi.

Our new friend Ben works for VPWA and is the &#8216;sponsor&#8217; of sorts for the soccer team.  He usually sits with me at practice and loves to talk to us and take us around Pokuase.  His father is the chief of a section of Pokuase, so he&#8217;s actually a big deal and we&#8217;re the new white people in town.  We&#8217;ve met his father a few times now, and he always asks us if Ghana is a good place and how people are treating us.   Ben&#8217;s taken us to his friend&#8217;s chop bar, a cousin&#8217;s barber shop, a few stores in the village, and he always walks us to our compound after soccer practices.  He&#8217;s extremely nice and he ends up paying for us to take the tro-tro to the game, buys food to share with us, and so on despite our protests.  His mother passed away 2 weeks ago, and he&#8217;s even invited us to her funeral in a week and a half.

So far it&#8217;s been great. We&#8217;ve gotten a little used to the city and the appropriate things to do when eating, greeting, etc. According to our gudebooks and director, the left hand is for &#8216;personal use&#8217; and should never be used when eating or shaking someone&#8217;s hand.  Ghanians are big on greetings, and a sort of salute wave is good for walking by people but we&#8217;re supposed to say hello and ask how people are before starting into a converstation.