---
title: Beautiful Bulgaria
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-07-17T14:31:09+00:00
url: /2009/07/17/beautiful-bulgaria/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Wednesday night/ Thursday morning Jacob and I took another overnight train from Bucharest to Sofia, Bulgaria. This time we got smart and booked a cabinin a sleeping car.  In the next car over were 2 Swiss girls on summer break from university, and we talked and shared some of our Egri wine with them.  As it got later we crossed the boarder between Romania and Bulgaria, and the authorities checked our passports extra carefully.  On the border on the Romanian side the passport-checker guy barely looked at the Swiss passports but took ours and the Americans&#8217; in the next cabin over.  We kept him in sight, but he walked into the next cabin and then we saw him outside the train with our passports again.  I was a little worried, and we started talking to our American neighbors as we watched out the hallway windows.  I was most alarmed when the guy walked off into the dark forest area with our passports, but in a few minutes he was back with a wonderful stamp for us.  He very skillfully stamped all 4 of the passports directly in the middle of the pages.  It&#8217;s been one of our rare stamps on this whole trip.

Our train got in at 6am, and we navigated the station and the quiet town toward the tram lines to get to the hostel.  On the tram we met 3 Scottish girls who were on our train and on their way to Hostel Mostel too.  They were especially excited to get to the hostel because they took a night train to Bucharest, walked around all day and then took our night train to Sofia.  As soon as we got in they slept in the common room downstairs.  Jacob and I read and got online before the crowd woke up and descended on the common room for breakfast.  We stored our bags and collected clothes to send to the laundry (they did it for us!)  and at 9.30 we signed up for and hoped on a tour to a nearby monastery.

It ended up being a 2 hour drive to the mountain region to the southeast of Sofia, but the entire ride was absolutely beautiful. As we left the city a huge mountain appeared in front of us, and we left the flat city area and drove toward a hilly countryside with lines of mountains in the distance.  It looked like a smaller scale of Colorado Rocky Mountains.  As we got closer, the hills turned into a small mountains with bits of snow at the tops and streams down the sides.   The monastery is in a small village in Rila, and it was begun in the 13oos as a fortress and evolved into an Eastern Orthodox Monastery.  The monks still live and pray there, and apparently people can stay in guest rooms also.  In the middle was a small church with frescos and gold and silver leaf on many of the images and icons.   The church and old tower were pretty by themselves, but set against the huge hills they were marvelous.

After we wandered around, our guide/ main driver took us to the small stream nearby. There was an old chaple and the cemetery for monks.  I was glad we did a little impromptu hike, but by 1pm I guessed lunch was next on our tour.  We got back in the cars and drove 5 minutes to a trail head and began a 15-20 min hike up a hill overlooking the valley and the monetary.  We climbed through a cave that had a little alter and candles inside and squeezed out a little hole to get back to the trail.  Jacob and I were not expecting the hiking part, and we were wearing our slightly nicer clothes to tour the monastery -I had a dress, Jacob wore khakis and a button-down! After the hike we drove back to the hostel and got our room, got our laundry back, unpacked and very thankfully showered.

That night we went out to dinner with an Australian couple we met in our rooms. They showed us a local restaurant they had discovered the night before.  Together, we ordered the &#8216;plateau dinner&#8217; call the &#8220;king and his gang&#8221; &#8211; it was supposed to feed 5 people, and we did a fair amount of work on the all-meat platter.  Back at the hostel we went to the common room to socialize and we met up with the Scots from our train.  We all played cards and talked and had a very great night.