---
title: Charlie’s Birthday Weekend
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-11-23T15:53:31+00:00
url: /2009/11/23/charlies-birthday-weekend/

---
Thursday was Charlie’s birthday, and our 2 new volunteer’s first weekend in Ghana so we decided to celebrate and show them around Accra all weekend.  Our 2 new volunteers are Kristie from Scotland and Sarah from NYC.  Kristie is working in a human rights office near Charlie’s office in Amasaman, and Sarah is working in an orphanage further outside of Accra.   Jacob and I were very excited to get another American right before Thanksgiving.  We hope to do something to celebrate and be overly American.

Thursday night we all went to Ryan’s Irish Pub in Osu, the touristy part of town.  Charlie, Jacob, Sarah, Kristie and I went early for dinner. We were all excited for some western food, and their happy hour ran from 5-9pm.  Our friends Hedi and Helena met up with us too- they’re Finish volunteers teaching children sign language.  Later, Hayford brought Ben, Justine, his girlfriend Portia, and our landlady/ Numo’s wife Princess.   We had a great time together with such a great group- Princess apparently knows how to say “my name is Princess” in sign language, and the Finns taught us a few words in Finish.  After the special ran out, we went down the street to Hayford’s favourite bar- Bywel’s.  It’s known for live music on Thursdays, and Hayford likes to take volunteers there to dance, but Charlie, Jacob and I know it for the women that hang around.  The last time we went with Hayford a few of the ladies harassed Jacob, and this time Charlie returned the favor.  He befriended one girl and introduced her to everyone several times each.

Friday Jacob, Charlie and I played hookey from working for Hayford.  We stayed home rather than going to the office in Amasaman, but we did start on some suggestions for Hayford and future volunteers.  Sadly, Kristie might have had food poisoning and she stayed home in bed.  Only Justine and Sarah went to their projects at their schools.  When Sarah came home Charlie, Jacob, Sarah and I went to Rhapsody restaurant to eat some South African (but mostly Western) food and listen to our DJ friend.  We were all tired from the night before and stuffed, so we didn’t even last until the music started!

Saturday Sarah left to see Cape Coast, since she’s only in Ghana for 2 weeks.  Kristie was feeling better and Charlie, Jacob, Kristie and I went to Kokobrite to continue the party at the beach hostel we stayed at a few week ago.  We met up with the Finish girls again, and the 6 of us rented out the loft/ dorm.  It was only a simple hut on stilts with a roof, wood floor, and thatch ½ walls and each of us got a mattress and mosquito net.   We decided that since our sleeping area was less than optimal, we would stay up until sunrise.  We secured one of the 2 tall huts with a table for dinner, and the 6 of us stayed there most of the night talking and playing drinking games.  The Finish girls taught us how to say “I never” in Finish, so we played “anna-nah-koska” instead.  After the bands ended at Reggae night at our hostel we went next door to a beach bar owned by an Australian guy.  He was full of energy and we remembered him staying up all night and day when we went to the beach the first time.  For some reason, Saturday wasn’t quite as wild.  I only made it until 3am, but Charlie and the Finns lasted until sunrise.  He said it was the most disappointing sunrise ever because the haze from Accra and mist on the ocean blocked all the colors in the sky.

It was a great weekend to relax and have fun with our new volunteers.  I can’t believe that I will go from sitting on the beach last weekend to chilly Wichita in less than 2 weeks!