---
title: Baria, Pokoasi, Amasaman! Baria, Pokoasi, Amasaman!! Baria, Pokoasi, Amasaman!!!
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-09-30T15:05:05+00:00
url: /2009/09/30/baria-pokosae-amasaman-baria-pokosae-amasaman-baria-pokosae-amasaman/
---
One of the most interesting and determining part of our day is the tro-tro ride to and from work.  Since it decides when we’ll get to work, it can make a huge impact on if we begin our day on time, in good moods, or completely exhausted.  This is a day in the life of tro-tro  travel-

A tro-tro is either a 15-person, 6-person or any variation of van that’s been gutted and every inch turned into a seat.  Typically, there are 3 or 4 rows of bench seats with little fold-down chairs at the end of each row to allow people to get to the back and seat additional people in the aisles. 2-3 passengers sit in the front seat. The ‘staff’ consists of a driver and a mate, who yells the direction of the tro-tro, gathers passengers, and collects money during the drive. There’s a great [video][1] of a news story on an obruni trotro mate.

The video is a wonderful shot of tro-tro culture. Each van typically has a slogan or religious phrase across the windows or back doors, stickers for Ghana or football clubs and suction-cupped items covering the windshield. Mates shout out their direction with a corresponding hand gesture- we go to work on tro-tros shouting ‘Accra accra accra’, ‘circle circle circle”, or ‘Achimota Achimota Achimota!’ Achimota, and ABC Juntion where our office is, is denoted by a hang gesture pointing towards the ground. Away from work we head to ‘baria pokuase amasaman, baria pokuase amasaman, baria pokuase amasaman’ and wild pointing at the sky.  Triplicate is mandatory, apparently.

We take the tro-tro from the base of the hill we live on at ACP Junction. Although everyone refers to all roads as the ‘main road’ this particular road connects Kumasi and Accra and us to our workplace.  The road has a little shoulder for tro-tros to pull off the highway to load and unload passengers, and Ghanaians much like the Hungarians we encountered, do no like lines. People shove and run for tro-tros, which we find ironic considering you then have to ride the tro-tro with the people you tried to shove out of the way just a minute before.  Mate attempt to lessen the commotion by shouting how many seats are available, but it can also lead to more intense fighting near the doors.  Such commotion is also a great time to have a phone stolen, as Jacob discovered.

Once onboard, we squeeze in with the existing passengers. We tell the mate where we are going, and pay the tiny sum of either 30 or 35 pesewa each, or about  20-23 cents US.  People are amazingly trusting once onboard. If someone in the back has to pay the passengers in the middle pass the amounts and change to everyone who can’t reach.  If a lady with a baby or heavy parcel gets on or off, strangers hold the children or purchases while the mothers strap babies to themselves.  Most people either offer greetings to oncoming passengers or keep to themselves, but I’ve never seen any harsh words directed at anyone but a greedy mate.  Occasionally, mates don’t give us proper change since we’re Obrunis. Once we speak up and argue that we take the route every day, others join in and protest the injustice. We always get our 10 pesewa change with the help of our new friends.

On the tro-tro people are very quiet, except for the occasional joking with the Obruni or backseat driving suggestions.  I’m amazed at Ghanaian’s abilities to sleep anywhere. Yesterday I saw 2 younger girls pile into the van and within minutes they were both asleep. The younger one sat on the bigger one’s lap and folded her arms across the back of the bench in front of her while her sister rested her head on her back. They both slept quietly despite the bumps in the road, stops and starts, quick breaking, and erratic driving.  Other times when we’ve gotten in, people immediately talk to us.  Last week, Jacob and I got in and sat down and the man behind me shouted out, “Hey, White Lady! How are you?”

Our routes vary, depending on the traffic and condition of the roads. Yes, there’s one road that connects home and work, yet our routes vary.  Because of the construction near the markets of Baria, St. John, and Tifa Junctions there are now miniature alternate routes alongside the actual road and construction routes.  Just like the people getting onto the tro-tro, drivers don’t believe in lines of traffic. Cars regularly pull into the lane for oncoming traffic, swerve around taxis unloading passengers, and paths supposedly reserved for construction equipment, and onto roped off sections of new road. Don’t worry, parents- it’s not particularly dangerous because the condition of the dirt or dirt-covered roads mandates that cars cannot go more than about 20 miles an hour.    One big detour is through the village of Ofankor, which is parallel to the main road. The route should be faster but the tiny dirt street is so pocked with bumps and holes that it takes about as much time as going through the traffic in Baria, under the bridge along the railroad tracks, or through the roped off construction areas.

One day we nearly got stuck in a huge puddle on the other side of the road and construction- another one of the ‘alternate routes’ tro-tros take. The 23-passenger van went slowly into the sitting brown water, then the driver hesitated and the wheels stuck.  Immediately, passengers offered shouted suggestions to the driver, and we reversed out of the ruts and boldly drove through the rest of the murky puddle.  Everyone on the tro-tro looked around with relief. I seriously thought we would all have to get out and push or find another ride over the hill.

The dust flying in the window is just a consequence of having the windows open for ventilation and a hope for a breeze.  Yet every time we get past the inevitable congestion in Baria and the street vendors selling bread, plantain chips, Mentos, and PK gum I’m so grateful for any airflow.

‘Bus stop, ACP’ the mate calls out. It’s our stop.

 [1]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGTA2i0nPIM