---
title: Oh! You found 4th gear! No, that was reverse!
author: mvaltie
date: 2009-06-30T19:41:23+00:00
url: /2009/06/30/oh-you-found-4th-gear-no-that-was-reverse/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Yesterday Jacob and I went on the &#8216;communist tour&#8217; Mike suggested, and ironically our guide&#8217;s English name was Mike.  At 1pm he picked us up in the company&#8217;s wonderful East German [Trabant][1] car.  The tiny fiberglass car, circa the 1960s, barely held all 3 of us since Jacob and Mike are tall guys and I either put my knees to the side or across the back seat to fit.  There wasn&#8217;t a gas gauge- we had to pop the hood to check the petrol levels and drivers had to mix the gas and oil every time they fill up. After the tour we got to drive the thing. Jacob successfully discovered all the gears and I didn&#8217;t stall out after I peeled around a cul-de-sac.  It also didn&#8217;t have air on our hot tour day and we opened the doors at every stoplight.  New Orleans friends probably have no sympathy there. Great driving all around.

First we went to a little bar that hadn&#8217;t remodeled since the 1950s, including a little Lenin statue.  Our guide showed us some original photos of the &#8216;perfect town&#8217; Stalin gave to Poland to convince them to move out of Krakow and conform to communism. Nowa Huta literally means New Stealworks and the entire town was planned around a living and working place for working class steal workers- it had everything a modern town could have except a church.  Stalin marketed the town to poor people who had no electricity and lived in huts, but the only stipulation was that everyone swear off religion and agree to the system.  Poles are super Catholic, so it was quite a stretch.  One of the guide&#8217;s grandmother had pictures of the square,  Lenin statues and the forced marches in the new city.  Everything was Soviet and build/ named to reflect the wonders of communism including the roads named &#8216;Lenin Way&#8217; &#8216;September Revolution Road&#8217; and &#8216;Ukrane Revolution&#8217;. Today, the main road is renamed Ronald Regan Way.

After the city we went to an authentic &#8216;milk bar&#8217; that looked to be completely from the 1980s, including the incredibly cheap prices. Our beetroot soup with dumplings were all under 9ZL, or about $3.   We ate and then went to a Communist apartment, now owned by the tour company. They bought it from an older man who hadn&#8217;t changed it since the 70s, including the wallpaper and old toys and &#8216;modern conveniences&#8217; our tourgide remembered from his youth.  The TV  had 4 buttons for channels and he said as the youngest he was the remote, changing between 1 and 2. He guessed that Poland was 10 to 15 years behind the US in toys, movies, and technology so most of the toys and kitchen things were comparable to what Americans had in the 70s or 80s rather than the late 90s in Poland.  The toilets didn&#8217;t have flush handles, only  water on and off valves to add or remove water from the bowl.  Quite the first-hand experience.  Before we left the apartment, we took some authentic vodka shots of clear and cherry Polish vodka with pickle chasers as we watched a Soviet propaganda advertisement for Nowa Huta.  They painted it as the town of workers made by workers, and a Polish paradise in the middle of a harsh country with dangerous thoughts.

Our guide took us by the factories and around the downtown Nowa Huta. He was funny and told us about the numerous attempts to dismantle the Lenin statute that had been in the square of the city. One young person tried to blow up Lenin&#8217;s leg and topple the statue but &#8216;didn&#8217;t learn his physics&#8217; and pointed the bomb the wrong way. He blew out the windows across the street and took off Lenin&#8217;s heel instead.

Lastly, we went by a phenomenal church outside the town.  It was built in the 1980s during Soviet times, because Polish communists quickly convinced Moscow that Poland would not be a communist nation if religion was not allowed.  Soviets allowed religion (and even let the Warsaw cathedral get rebuild in the late 1940s) because they knew Poles would revolt without Catholicism.  Mike told us that spies lived among people and would follow and record churchgoers to the government, so religion was more &#8216;tolerated&#8217; than allowed.  The church was allowed to placate the Poles in Nowa Huta after several uprisings, but they were not allowed to use machines. The huge church was build out of tiny stones, wood and glass over 10 years. It looks very little like a church, but the underside of Noah&#8217;s ark rising above 2,000 rocks and glass symbolizing the hardships of Polish past.  Inside the church has a giant Jesus on the cross, bent forward like a masthead on a ship and a mural stations of the cross that also depict Polish history in the background of Christ&#8217;s march to the cross.  The Vatican gave the church a moon rock (re-gifted from the American moon landing) to encourage the people who built the building by hand.  It was very impressive to see and stand inside.  Hopefully pictures to come soon, when I charge my camera.

 [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trabant