---
title: Favelas to Football
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-01-18T18:32:37+00:00
url: /2010/01/18/favelas-to-football/
---
Despite some hesitation, Jacob and I took a &#8216;favela tour&#8217; yesterday.  CabanaCopa arranged a tour company to pick us up and take us to the Rocinha favela- one of the famously crowded hillside slums of Rio.  Our guide told us over 4 million people in Rio live in favelas, and over 52 million Brazilians live in favelas around the country.  People build the buildings on pillars on illegal land, and the crowded conditions forces new families to build up, literally.  Once someone builds on favela land it is theirs, so people sell their roofs as &#8216;land&#8217; and pay off their construction costs.

We took a 15 passenger van to the district, driving through 2 long very dark tunnels carved out of the mountains.  Once we arrived on the other side of the 2 Brothers Mountains we got out of the van, walked a little ways and each got our own motorcycle &#8216;taxi.&#8217;  We climbed on the back of a driver- each one got 2R for the drive, and we drove up the curvy streets to the top of the favela.  My driver got a little lost in the back of the group and almost missed the stop until Jacob yelled &#8220;Margaret!&#8221; and he saw our guide waving to him.  I would have had an extremely fun tour of the favela!

Our guide was very honest and asked us not to take pictures at certain points in the tour.  She asked us not to take photos on the drive up, for obvious safety reasons, and never of any people related to the drug trade.  Once we walked inside the favela&#8217;s narrow alleyways she told us to be careful with pictures- no photos of guns, drug dealers, lookout boys with cell phones, etc.   We walked down from the top through the &#8216;streets&#8217; and along the tiny one-room homes, shops, bars, and restaurants crowded with people.  We stopped in at an artist&#8217;s studio and a bakery to get a feel for some of the things favela dwellers do for money other than selling drugs and crime.  Along our walk I never saw any guns or drugs, thankfully, but I think our guide made sure to let everyone know that a big group of gringos was coming through.  Everyone we came across was quiet and equally curious of us, but all of my smiles and waves were returned.   I did see drug lookouts, women doing laundry, street dogs, open sewers, trash heaps, men frying what looked like fish, and a domestic dispute.   All in all I felt safe with the tour and Jacob and I are both glad we did see a slice of life in the favelas.

On the way back to the van our guide asked us not to buy drugs, and also explained how almost 60% of the tour money goes towards a volunteer-run day care center to allow favela dwellers a chance to leave their children in a safe place while they work and earn honest money.  Despite the reputation and awful living conditions there seemed to be a few good opportunities for people to survive on something other than crime and the cycles of poverty.  Back in the van, our crazy driver got us back to our hostel just in time to take another tour to the first soccer/ football match of the season.

Along with about 30 other people from our hostel, we went to see the Flamingo game.  Apparently the team is the most popular in Rio and Brazil and red and black shirts were all over the city.  We arrived near the stadium at a small sandwich and fruit shop- good for a quick lunch- and waited around for almost an hour.  Our tour service had about 100 gringos from hostels going to the game, so the ticket organization was struggling.  Finally we walked to the stadium, waited a bit more, and got our tickets.  Inside we&#8217;d missed about 20 minutes of the game and the first goal.  Most of the first half was dull, but Flamingo ended up winning 3-2.  It seemed like the entire crowd was Flamingo fans, and they were incredibly passionate about their team!  A family in front of us had a little girl who fell off her seat and got upset, but the parents just held her until halftime when they finally did look at her leg to see if there was anything seriously wrong with her.   Although the game wasn&#8217;t enthralling it was fun to go out with almost everyone from our hostel.