---
title: Sao Paulo
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-01-21T16:08:00+00:00
url: /2010/01/21/sao-paulo/

---
Despite the maligning from the people of Rio, I&#8217;ve enjoyed the short time in Sao Paulo. We arrived very early after our night bus from Rio, so the hostel couldn&#8217;t check us in until after 12pm. Jacob and I found a nice little bakery for breakfast/ lunch while our bags stayed at the reception desk. From there Jacob went back to the hostel to try to check in and take a nap. I explored the main street of our part of town and walked down to the MASP Art Museum.

The Museum is a combination of Western art and some temporary exhibits. The temporary displays were very interesting- it was all street art, graffiti, strange combinations of materials such as books, canvass, and videos. The top floor was an interesting progression of types of paintings rather than groups by location or era. After about an hour I&#8217;d had enough and went back to the hostel.

For dinner Jacob and I decided to explore the Japense part of town. Our hostel people gave us verbal directions from the metro but once we got there we couldn&#8217;t find the place. After roaming the street we settled for a Chinese restaurant. Once inside we tried to ask the waitresses about the menu, which was only in Chinese or Portuguese, and the couple across the table took pity on us and spoke to us in English. They told us about another Japanese place above a parking garage they thought was all you can eat. Once we finally found it and walked through the garage there were 4 restaurants above it!

We picked a good looking one which had individual hibachi on each tabels. I think we were the only gringos and the only people not of Japanese decent eating in the restaurant. We selected what we thought was pork, beef, chicken, and vegitables but we got bacon, beef, chicken livers and cabbage. We tried it all since we were so hungry and it all ended up tasting good. Our waiter was very nice an brought us 2 more free miso soups.  
We huddled back to the hostel for our free caipirihnas ( the special was only from 9- 9.30) and we met another American on the patio. He&#8217;s thinking of moving to Sao Paulo to find a job near his Brazilian girlfriend&#8217;s hometown

Today we had to check out early and once again put our bags at reception. Learning from our last bus trip, where we got the very last 2 seats on the bus, we went to the bus station to buy our tickets for later tonight. We are set to take the 10.45 bus to Florinopolois- a 12 hour ride to the little beach town famous for surfing.