---
title: Ata Whenua – Shadowland
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-03-15T21:03:09+00:00
url: /2010/03/15/ata-whenua-shadowland/

---
After our failed attempt to visit Milford Sound (the bus missed us), we rescheduled for a Sunday trip.  Our bus came bright and early at 7.30am outside of our hostel.  The bus driver, Jared, was very entertaining but the bus full of 18-30 year-olds was not very lively at that hour.  We started our trip out of Queenstown and drove out past the huge ski mountains called the Remarkables and the 3<sup>rd</sup> largest lake in New Zealand, Lake Wakatipu.  The first stop we made was 2 hours south at Te Anau.  The driver let us out to look around and explore.  He suggested a great little shop around the corner for wonderful pies and Jacob and I had an amazing venison and cheese pot pie.

Te Anau is also the name of the 2<sup>nd</sup> largest lake in New Zealand, and we spent most of the next drive skirting the lake.  Our ultimate destination was Milford Sound and other than knowing that it was one of the must-see sights for the Queenstown area I didn’t know much about it.  Our driver clearly had a deep love for all things New Zealand and outdoors, and along the drive he talked about the wildlife, plants, camping spots, and dozens of places we should come back to someday.  Apparently Milford Sound is not actually a sound (land pushed up from the sea to make inlets) but a fiord carved out of the mountains by glaciers.  The area surrounding Milford Sound is known as Fiordland and Fiordland National Park. The park is a massive section of the far southwestern section of New Zealand and park rangers keep it pristine by exterminating all non-native plants and animals.

It was an hour drive out to the fiord, but we made 6 stops along the way to look at mirror lakes, a chasm of rock and waterfalls, and other scenic spots for photos.  A few of the times we stopped our driver pointed out areas used in the Lord of the Rings movies.  The sights were impressive and movie-worthy.  We saw vast open plains leading up to huge mountains, dark ponds reflecting snow-capped peaks, deep lakes and sheer rock faces and the ocean beyond the fiord.  Once we arrived at the fiord we hopped from the bus to a boat that fed us lunch and cruised us around the fiord and out into the Tasman Sea.

At one end of the fiord we stopped at an underwater observatory to get a glimpse under the dark, cold water.  Our guide explained that all the rainfall came off the mountains and collected the dark colors of the leaves and moss, which dyed the water a dark shade of blue-green.  The water is so dark and the fiord is so deep that there are many types of deep-sea creatures living in the sound.  We got to look at some of the black coral, anemones, and fish in the observatory but it was murky and a little creepy even just a few feet below the surface.

Back on the boat we went by huge waterfalls that turned into spray with the wind.  We came across little seals sunning themselves on rocks and drove up near a pack of bottle-nosed dolphins.  The dolphins swam all around our boat as if they knew to put on a show for us. For the entire boat ride I was just amazed at the massive size of the imposing cliffs and the huge peaks in the distance.  It was a little chilly on the water and our driver joked that New Zealand is so far south that “every time Antarctica coughs we feel it!” I can only imagine how cold it gets in a New Zealand winter.

It was a long day of driving, boating, and underwater observing.  It took us over 2 hours to get back to Queenstown and we arrived around 8.30pm.  Our bungee guides from a few days before suggested an awesome steak restaurant called Flame.  Jacob had some of the biggest ribs either of us had ever seen.

The next day was full of airplanes.  In the morning we made our way to NZone and caught a shuttle out to the airfield to skydive.  We were paired with another Ameican from DC.  Once we got to the jump site we emptied our pockets, suited up, and got fitted for a harness.   Each of our skydive guides introduced themselves to us and we boarded a tiny little airplane. The plane was just a narrow tube with a window/ door.  Once we reached 1200 feet Jacob’s guide and Jacob slid over to the door, opened the door and slid out and away.  They made it look so easy and graceful and in a few second my guide was sliding me over to the door.  I leaned out, put my feet on the rail outside the plane and just like that we were floating outside in the air.  It seemed just like we were hovering for a few seconds before we started falling. It was a slower fall than the bungee, maybe because it started slowly and I knew that my guide was in control the whole time.  The fall was quick before we pulled the chute and slowed down to a quiet drift above the view of mountains, the lake, and miles of sheep.   As we floated down I could look down and see Jacob and his guide spinning around and around before they came in to land.   My guide and I landed quickly right after Jacob.  The quick fall, scenic float down, and skydive was over very quickly.

After a little bit of a wait, we took the shuttle back most of the way to the airfield near town.  It dropped us off at the next event- JagAir, the aerobatic biplane company.  It was clearly a one-man show.  The van driver checked us in, briefed Jacob and the 3 other guys flying that day, then took them up one by one to flip and dive and spin around the air.  Jacob was last, and it got a bit boring waiting for everyone else to go up.  I didn’t go so I had camera duty.  It was hard to see the little plane once it took off and disappeared into the huge mountains in the distance.  The pilot/ driver/ owner showed us all the cockpit videos then we all hopped in the van back to town.  Along the way Jacob and I asked him about a good restaurant for dinner, and he drove us out of the way to show us the Cow.  After a quick stopover in the hostel, we went back to the restaurant.  We had some decent pasta before we returned again, exhausted.

Today was our “free day” compared to all the extreme plans we’d made in the rest of the week.  It was a great day to sleep in since it started to drizzle off and on for most of the afternoon.  We had a great Thai lunch and headed back up the gondola to the luge track and the last bungee jump.   At the top we geared up with goofy helmets and hopped on another chair lift to the top of the luge track.  The luge was essentially a big skateboard with bike handlebars and we raced around a narrow paved track.  The first race is required on the “scenic track” which is longer and has more curves.  The next 2 races we took the “advanced track” and raced another couple over the hills and through tunnels.

Next Jacob was scheduled to bungee jump off of “the Ledge”- a 40meter bungee that overlooks Queenstown and the lake, right alongside the gondola tracks.  I was bungeed out after our 3 bungees earlier in the week, so I attempted to take pictures.  Jacob got to go before his scheduled time and met some of the bungee guys from the bridge a few days before.  Since they knew he’d bungeed, they let him run off the platform and spin around backwards. They called it “the Matrix move” and the bungee’s cameras got amazing shots of Jacob and the platform guys pretending to shoot at each other.  They even said they might use Jacob as a promotional photo for the ledge!



Tomorrow we fly out of Queenstown and spend one more night in Auckland.  We’re hoping to meet up with Jon and Mellissa Little, cousins of friends from home, for a late dinner.  The next  day we leave New Zealand and start our 2 weeks in Australia- Sydney, the Great Barrier Reef, and Melbourne.