---
title: 'Cusco- The Navel of the World'
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-02-15T20:09:31+00:00
url: /2010/02/15/carnival-in-cusco-sacsayhuaman/

---
Saturday Jacob signed up for a charity football (soccer) tournament with the hostel while I explored the city.  The football tournament was against other hostels and local groups to raise money for flood victims.  Team Loki played 4 games, apparently with great amounts of pushing, yellow cards, and creative rules.  Jacob and his fellow gringos lost all 4 games, but the ensuing barbecue soothed the team.

In the morning I walked around Cusco with my guidebook.  Unfortunately, most of the main sights in the city are on a &#8216;tourist ticket&#8217;  or individual entrance fees.  Since I was going on a guided tour in the afternoon I opted to visit the churches, plazas, and museums that were not included later.  My first stop was the plaza and church of San Francisco, but it was closed for some reason.  My main goal was the Inca Museum, which turned out to be huge.  The museum had miniature models of Incan communities, artifacts, pottery, and even mummies and skeletons.  I was very excited to see Incan artifacts in Cusco after my forensic anthropology class &#8220;Bones Bodies and Disease&#8221; which studied Incas and pre-Incas in Peru.  After the museum I walked up to the San Blas neighborhood and saw the famous &#8220;Inca Stone&#8221; in a remaining section of walls from Inca times.

The guided tour started at 1.30pm back in the main square.  We started at the Cathedral, the &#8220;second most beautiful church in the Americas&#8221; according to our very flamboyant guide.  The altar was made out of hammered sliver, and each chapel had a gold altar and miniature doll figures of the holy family and saints.  Our guide delighted in showing us little rebellious details in the giant paintings such as native animals like condors and llamas in the background, Francisco Pizzaro&#8217;s face imposed on the figure of Judas, and local fruits on the table of the last supper portrait.

Our next 5 stops were ruins of Incan temples and fortresses in and around the city.  <span style="color:#000000;"><a title="Qoricancha" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qoricancha" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Qoricancha</a>, </span>The site of the Inca temples to the stars, lightning, and the sun and moon was mostly destroyed by the Spanish but parts of the walls and underground tunnels were discovered after an earthquake destroyed parts of the monastery that was built on top.   The largest ruins were the site of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacsayhuaman" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Sacsayhuaman </a>(pronounced like sexy woman), where there were apparently 3 huge towers to the gods before the Spaniards ruined more Inca things.  The other ruins were a water/ agriculture temple that still had fountains and irrigation terraces and a &#8220;customs fortress&#8221; along the ancient Incan road system.

At the end of the evening we went to a local weaving shop.  Our guide assured us that after a little demonstration we could tell the difference between fake wool, real alpaca, baby alpaca and a mixture of alpaca and cotton.   The owner explained that some sweaters are fully cotton or a blend of real and synthetic alpaca but people brush out fibers to make it look like full alpaca.  To be totally honest, other than the synthetic colors I still cannot tell the difference between the types of fibers!

Carnival in Cusco-

The next day we walked around the city to get bus tickets for the night bus to Nazca and we stopped for lunch at a little family-run pizza shop.  2 little girls were playing outside, and the older one squirted Jacob with a little water gun.  Apparently rather than beads and floats, people celebrate Carnival by throwing water, foam and soap at people and especially gringos.  After lunch we walked back to the hostel, and 2 different boys barely missed me with water balloons.  I joked back with them about bad aim and promptly got doused with a bucket of water!  I jokingly ran away and around the corner more kids were waiting with water balloons and buckets.   It was impossible to avoid now- we both got soaked on our walk up the hill.  Jacob got surprise attached by 2 women with water balloons hiding under a tarp in the back of a pickup truck while I was assulted by a little boy with another bucket of water.   Luckily I had a bottle of water with me, so I doused him down the back of the shirt in return.