---
title: Uyuni Salt Lake
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-02-06T21:05:21+00:00

---
Wednesday Jacob and I took our morning bus to Uyuni.  Yet another exciting drive in Bolivia- The bus ride itself was the show.   Our bus was a relatively normal bus with about 30 seats, music and curtains except that the wheels were set up high and had huge off-roading tires.  The roads were all dirt and we climbed and took hundreds of switchbacks up small mountains.  We could see snow-covered peaks in the distance on both sides, and the land had only scrub brush and goats. Halfway through we stopped in a tiny town tucked in the valley of the mountains.  The driver told us we would only stop for 10 minutes, but it turned out to be more like an hour.  Once we were back in the bus it was a totally different road.  It went from smooth, narrow mountain trails to a wide, bumpy track.  We jiggled and bounced the rest of the way to Uyuni.

Uyun is an unremarkable little town that used to be a larger mining and transportation hub.  Right next to the town is Salar de Uyuni, the largest salt lake in the world.  It is reported to be over 9,000 square kilometers over 4,000 km above sea level.  Once we found a little hostel by the bus station we booked a 4&#215;4 tour with some new travel friends.  Dallas and Sylvia, an Aussie and America, were behind us on the bus and introduced us to their Argentinians friends, Franco and Lucas.  Luckily for us Lucas was sufficiently bi-lingual and translated everything for us gringos. We got a deal of a tour for the next day and all went out to dinner together.

Thursday we all checked out of the hostel and stored our bags with the tour company office while we squeezed in to the Land Cruiser.  Our tour operator assured us we got a great deal and it was better than some companies who cram 10 people in to one 4&#215;4.  I didn’t feel very reassured between 3 other people and the door of the car.  Our guide only spoke Spanish, so yet again Lucas translated for us.  We set out on a bumpy trail out of the town and saw llamas, deer, and sheep along the way.  We stopped at a little village where they process the salt and refine it.  Of course, there were swarms of other tours and tons of souvenir shops selling things made out of salt and llama wool.  Our guide told us the government used to refine all the salt, but judging by the abandoned factory outside of the village it hasn’t been open in a while.

In about an hour we came to the edge of the tremendous salt lake.  In the dry season the cars drive on the salt but now in the rainy season there is about 1-3 meters of water on top.  All the 4x4s boldly drove out on the lake- our driver was apparently the most cautions and drove slowly.  From a distance the lake looked like a mirage with the shimmering glow from the salt and the reflective shine from the water on top.  Once on the lake, the horizon completely disappears.  The only way we could tell the edges were the tops of mountains in the distance, but even those reflected back on the lake to look like islands.  I could see the curve of the earth since some of the mountain-islands were snow topped but barely visible over the rim of the lake.   The other cars on front of us seemed to be driving into the sky, since the lake perfectly mirrored the bright blue sky.  Our guide told us that storms are very dangerous, since people cannot find the horizon and end up wandering around and around the lake.

We drove out about 30 minutes to the original salt hotel.  The building is made up entirely of thick blocks of salt, including tables and chairs made out of salt.  Tons of other 4&#215;4 tours pulled up around the hotel and everyone got out to walk around in the thin layer of water on top of the salt crystals.  It was incredibly sunny, but the air was very cold.  People had on strange mixtures of warm and cold weather clothes, but most everyone took off their shoes to walk in the warm salt water.  While we walked around and took pictures our guide set up a little picnic lunch of chicken, local rice, cucumbers and tomatoes.  We ate, walked around, took more pictures and talked with other tourists for over an hour.  Finally, our guide gathered us back up and we drove off the salt lake.

Our next stop was a bit random, but Uyuni has a collection of decaying trains. Apparently all the old coal and steam engines came here to die.  It looked like the people who drove them in to the area had as much fun as we did- several train cars were run into the ground or derailed where they’d hit other parked cars.  The ‘train cemetery’ was fun to climb around and take pictures on, but we were all ready to head back to town.  The rest of our tour group caught the 6pm bus, so Jacob and I went to dinner and found an internet café until our 8pm overnight bus.

We are now resting for a few days in La Paz.  We’re staying in the much-hyped Loki Hostel of La Paz. It will be a nice break from busses, as well as a hostel with internet, breakfast, English-speakers and hot water.