---
title: Cusco
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-02-13T03:54:07+00:00
url: /2010/02/13/cuzco/

---
After more misadventures with the Bolivian buses, we flew from La Paz to Cusco, Peru.  We missed out on seeing Lake Titicaca, the highest lake in the world but it was an amazing view to fly over it and along the snow-covered Andes.  Magically we landed in Cusco at the same take we took off- because of a time change and a 1 hour flight.

Jacob and I stayed in Loki Cusco, the same chain as the hostel in La Paz.  The usual &#8216;party&#8217; hostel was strangely empty since Machu Pichu has been closed due to the flooding and landslides that closed the train and roads.  Because our flight got in early, we had part of the day to walk around the center of Cusco and find a few good restaurants.   A few of the staff members mentioned the hostel&#8217;s volunteer projects around the city, including a charity football game and flood relief work in the next few days.   Jacob and I signed up for the flood relief on Friday and the football game on Saturday.

Friday we woke up early and met the other 10 or so Lokis who volunteered to help out. Alex, the most entertaining staff member, came straight from the night before to the van insisting that sleeping &#8220;would be, like, so selfish.&#8221;   We drove for an hour up through the city and into the Sacred Valley.   On the other side of the mountains we drove down the the Urubamba River. The river runs from the Andes and flooded the villages in the valley and caused landslides that destroyed parts of the train tracks and road that led to Machu Pichu.   Our assignment was in the village of Urubamba.  As we got out of the van we each got work gloves and a few picks, shovels and a wheelbarrow. 2 guys met up with a lady and started moving dirt from her former house to a small wall nearby.  Jacob and I were matched with 2 young boys, about 10 and 8 years old, who pointed out the pile of mud, roof tiles and wood that was their house.  Apparently the flood brought a large amount of mud and completely disintegrated the mud house.

Our 2 young coworkers pointed us to the large area of packed mud/ dirt and hauled the wheelbarrows over to a little pile of rubble closer to the river.  The boys, whose names I never could master, worked incredibly hard.  We occasionally tricked them out of working by getting them to buy some water from a shop along the street.  Jacob and I were immediately tired from picking and shoveling the densely packed dirt at altitude.  After a few hours their father came by, shook our hands and started shoveling along with us. Occasionally we found a whole roof tile, a part of wood or a whole mud brick which we moved to an area near the road.  We all took some breaks yet we moved a substantial amount of dirt and tile away from the floorboards by lunchtime.  The gringos all met up and ate lunch in a little restaurant on the main street in the town, but our 2 boys kept working.  When we came back they had pulled out most of the wood slats of the floor.  By the time we left at 5pm we had removed a space of about 10x6x2 feet of dirt/ mud/ roof tile/ wood.  We said goodbye to our boys and their family and headed back to Loki.

On our way back our driver pointed out a strange thing on the side of the road- a little town of people dancing around a tree.  We pulled over and walked over to the group.  People were playing music, dishing out big plates of food and running around after children.  3 girl volunteers and I noticed the little boys had bags of pink and purple chalk and were running after the little girls, much like how we&#8217;d seen people in the cities throwing water at each other for Carnivale.  After a few minutes the boys worked up the courage to throw the chalk at gringas, and absolutely covered one of the girls who knelt down to play with the kids.  A few boys smeared chalk down my arm, and to be a good sport I bent down so a boy could get some on my cheeks.  For my efforts I got a cheek full of chalk, then an eyeful.    We drove off in the van after a few minutes of watching the &#8216;tree party&#8217;.  Back in the van someone explained that as a part of the Carnivale celebration the town decorates a tree with gifts, has a party, and a young couple chops down the tree to get the gifts.