---
title: Auckland
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-03-09T15:41:42+00:00

---
All the hours we&#8217;ve been skipping over with flights through multiple time zones finally caught up to us.  Wednesday Jacob and I flew from Buenos Aires, Argentina to Auckland, New Zealand via Sydney.  By the time we landed in Auckland it was almost Friday morning.  Unfortunately Jacob&#8217;s bag didn&#8217;t catch the last leg of our flight with us, and to add to the confusion they had switched the bag labels and thought it was my bag.

By 2am we just wanted a hotel in town with a room.  After passing up on some expensive ones, we found the City Life hotel within walking distance of the US Consulate.  Later Friday morning I attempted to go to the Consulate to start the process of turning my temporary one month passport into a real life passport. The silly consulate wouldn&#8217;t allow me in without an appointment so I had to wait until Monday.  Once I was allowed in it ended up taking a total of 10 minutes. I gave them my temporary passport and papers, 2 photos, and the receipt for the temporary passport and that was it.  Easy.

It is great to be back in an English-speaking country.  Auckland is also a refreshing change back to clean, wide streets with shops, restaurants, and public transportation.  There are amazing amounts of great restaurants- Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, and Mexican places abound.  We&#8217;ve been diligently trying to patronize them all. After a few days I came to realize that Auckland reminds me most of Seattle- a tower in the skyline, coffee shops galore, a ferry, cool summer weather, outdoorsy people, and big city/ small town feel.  The size is probably the biggest difference- apparently Auckland has 1 of the 4 million Kiwis.

We checked out of City Life and moved down the street to a backpackers&#8217; hostel.  We checked in and spent some quality time at the travel desk, where we booked our trip to the South Island.  We hope to do all sorts of extreme sports and activities, but for the sake of our mothers I&#8217;ll write about them all <span style="font-style:italic;">after <span style="font-style:normal;">we survive&#8230;    Over the next few days we walked around Auckland and took in the wonders of a moderately big city.  With some great advice from my parent&#8217;s neighbors, fellow travelers, Jon and Melissa Little, we heard about all the great things Auckland and New Zealand had in store for us.  Jacob&#8217;s brother, Chris, lived in New Zealand for a few months and sent us some great tips for things to do and friends to look up. </span></span>

<span style="font-style:italic;"><span style="font-style:normal;">To kick off our extreme adventures in NZ we jumped off of the Sky Tower downtown.  It was a wonderful view of the city and the surrounding islands, then a quick controlled fall down about 170meters.  Since it&#8217;s a large building in the middle of the city it&#8217;s not exactly a bungee jump, but more of a &#8216;controlled fall&#8217;.  They like to call it base jumping with a rope, but that&#8217;s a bit of an overstatement.  The crew were all very cautious and went over the safety instructions several times.  The crew at the top was a bunch of Americans learning how to do it for a similar jump being built in Las Vegas.  It opens in April, and we promised we&#8217;d come visit someday.   I went first, and the guide walked out with me to the edge of the platform at the top of the tower, harnessed me in, posed with me for a picture, counted me down and helped push me off the ledge.  After only 10meters it stopped me for a photo then released again for about 3 seconds before I completely fell over on the landing pad.  I was not prepared for having to catch myself at the bottom!  Needless to say I did not buy the DVD of my experience.   I watched from the bottom as Jacob fell, caught for a photo, and landed a bit more gracefully than me.   We even got fancy certificates that prove we jumped off of a perfectly good building. </span></span>

Later Saturday night we went out to a restaurant Chris recommended, SPQR.  It is clearly one of the coolest spots on the street.  I had amazing oysters and muscles while Jacob had equally great gnocchi.   After dinner we called our friend Seb.  Seb is Polish/ Kiwi we&#8217;d met in Rio and luckily kept in touch with.  We looked around for them at the Social Club next door, then went across the street to a place called Cosh.  Seb and 2 friends met up with us at Cosh, where we made friends with the manager and bartender thanks again to Chris.  Sunday afternoon we met up with Seb again at his friend&#8217;s house for a Kiwi barbecue.   We feasted on lamb, sausages, salads, and kebabs in the beautiful suburb looking out over Auckland.   Seb took us back to the hostel, with a senic detour over the bridges leading into the city lit up at night.

<span style="font-style:italic;"><span style="font-style:normal;">On Monday we visited the Rainbow&#8217;s End amusement park just outside the city.  It was a bit on the mediocre side, but we were 2 of about 20 people in the entire park.  The rides were all open, but were on a shift system where one set was open for 1 hour then would switch over to the other half for the next hour block.  We rode the 1 roller coaster several times in a row in the front seats, the far back and the middle then ran off to the next ride.  In about 3 hours we rode 10 different rides, a few of them multiple times.  We finished up with a fierce game of minigolf and took the bus back to the city. </span></span>

<span style="font-style:italic;"><span style="font-style:normal;">Tuesday Jacob and I took the ferry over to Waiheke Island and visited another of Chris&#8217;s suggestions at the <a href="http://www.stonyridge.co.nz/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Stonyridge vineyard</a>.  Chris&#8217;s friend and the owner was out on the Louis Vuitton sailing team&#8217;s boat, but he did put in a word for us to get the special treatment.  Once we got to the vineyard we got a table set apart from the others and a wonderful lunch of fresh snapper and the sampling platter of olives, salmon, brie, and fresh olive oil.  We ordered a few tastings of the select wines and a bottle of one of the older famous Larose label 2003. We lingered for several hours over lunch and the tastings, and by the time we left Stonyridge all the other vineyards were closed for the evening.  We caught the island bus back to the ferry to Auckland.  Even by dinner time we were still stuffed from the wonderful lunch, so we opted for late night kebabs around the corner from the hostel.   Tomorrow we catch an early flight to Queenstown on the South Island for all of our extreme adventures.</span></span>

<span style="font-style:italic;"><span style="font-style:normal;"></p> 

<p>
  </span></span>
</p>