---
title: Rio de Janeiro
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-01-18T19:56:24+00:00
url: /2010/01/18/rio-de-janeiro/

---
On our last full day in Rio Jacob and I finally did a city tour.  Once again through our hostel, we went with a group of about 5 new hostel friends and a few from other hostels.  We started our tour by driving all over Copabana and Ipanema (as in the Girl from Ipanema) to pick up the other tour group members.  Our first stop was on a beach where people can hang glide from a mountain down to the water, so we watched a few people go by but our guide didn&#8217;t sell any hang gliding trips.  We drove in to the Parque Nacional da Tijuca, which used to supply all the water for the city and was a massive coffee farm.  Along a little hiking trail is a nice little waterfall and strange little fountains and bathtub-looking things that used to be points to get water from.  Back in the bus, we drove up the mountains to the Corcovado mountain and the famous Christ the Redeemer statue.  Luckily we got to skip the lines for the busses and our group went straight up to the overlook and statue.  We crowded in for a few photos of us with the Christ in the background, but the crowds were pretty thick.  For some reason everyone felt the need to lay down on the ground in order to fully capture the statue or their friends holding their arms out with the statue behind them, but we wised up and stood on the steps instead.   The view was great, since the statue is in almost the perfect middle of the city.  It was overcast, but the clouds were high enough that we could get a great view from the statue without the glare of the sun.

By 1pm we were hungry and excited to head to lunch next.  Apparently the usual local restaurant they take tours to was closed Mondays, so we headed to the Saint Terrisea section of the old city for the backup.  Jacob authorizes the backup was also closed because we got out of the van, walked down a little street with a tram, stood by the corner and got back in the van.  Next we drove to a large cafeteria style restaurant where we paid per kilo of food. It was decent and cheap, but I image the usual restaurants were more authentic.   For our last part of the tour we went to the famous mosaic tiled staircase in the Lapa region.  A (slightly crazy) man moved to Rio from Chile and decided to beautify a long staircase with tiles, and once his public art caught on people send him tiles from all over the world.  He was working on it while we were there, and he posed for pictures with some of our group.  Jacob and I found tiles in the shape of Africa, tiles from Texas and all over the US and the world.

At the end of the tour half the group got dropped off at Sugar Loaf, the &#8216;tallest rock formation by the ocean&#8217; while the other half of us went back to our hostels.  Jacob and a few Cabanians took the little gondolas up the 2 mountains to see the view of the city.  I opted to go back- it&#8217;s been a long day!