---
title: Road to Rio
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-01-16T00:02:44+00:00
url: /2010/01/16/road-to-rio/

---
Wednesday morning Mom and I headed to the airport together.  Luckily I got on her earlier flight to Chicago, and we said goodbye in Chicago.  Mom headed home to Wichita after almost a month away.  I had plenty of time to enjoy the Admiral&#8217;s Lounge since I had an international ticket.  Next up I flew to Miami, more quality time in the airport, and flew to Rio de Junero.  Both flights were uneventful and great- Dad used points to upgrade me to First class and I got 2 dinners.

Finally in Rio, I went through customs and immigration.  I helped another American find his bags in the confusion before customs.  Apparently his father told him the fool-proof way to find luggage is to put a rainbow strap on his red bag.  Sadly there were at least 3 red bags with rainbow tags and about 10 total rainbow straps.  He was tempted to take a picture to prove it to his father. I waited another few hours until Jacob&#8217;s flight arrived.  A helpful porter wanted to put us in a &#8216;special&#8217; taxi, but after reading the guide I knew special only meant more expensive.  Even though he didn&#8217;t speak a word of English and we don&#8217;t speak any Portuguese, we communicated &#8216;no special&#8217; and Jacob kept saying yellow in Spanish.  We figured eachother out and he found a yellow, metered, taxi for us.  I assumed he was being so attentive because he wanted a tip, and after life in Ghana I thought it was normal.  When I gave him 1 real as he opened my door he nodded, then looked into his hand and ran along the cab smiling and holding the bill.  Looks like he wasn&#8217;t expecting a tip after all.

Our driver took us to the metro stop according to our directions, but then was very confused when he couldn&#8217;t find our hostel.  He asked a few ladies if he really had to drive up the big hill in front of us, and he even asked us.  Eventually he worked up the courage to climb the hill but he stopped almost at the top.  Our hostel is just on the crest of the hill, so we hopped out and checked in.  It&#8217;s a large beautiful building with a lounge area, mini pool table, patios, and 2 stories of rooms.  Our room is on the top floor with another big lounge and tv room.  The room is a bit simple- just bunk beds, 2 lockers, and a bathroom that&#8217;s more like a toilet in a shower.

For the first day we just walked around to get a feel for our little area, Copacabana.  We found an all-you-can eat restaurant for lunch/ dinner, and walked out on the famous beach.  In the afternoon we caught up on some sleep and spent the night in the hostel. There is a small bar and tables, and we talked to the owner and bartender about other hostels, Rio, and our planned trip across South America.  A nearby restaurant delivers to the hostel, so we ordered some steak sandwiches along with some other guests.  The bartender, Carol, was very nice and explained most of the menu for us and advised us on what to eat.  She grabbed a tomato from one of our sandwiches, but immediately tried to spit it out and yelled &#8216;meat! meat!&#8217;  Apparently she&#8217;s a recent vegetarian and the tomato was too meat-flavored.  Later we met 2 Aussies and played a few rounds of cards before the bar closed and we all headed off to bed.

Today was another quiet day since it was very cloudy. Our plans to visit the Christ statue and Sugarloaf mountain will be postponed until a clear day.  Instead we walked around more and ate a big lunch on the seaside with some British expats.  We sat on the beach until it started drizziling again.  In the hostel we watched City of God, which takes place in 1970s Rio.   I found a good dinner spot in the guidebook, and we ate outside at Arab restaurant.  It was good, if a bit expensive, food.  In a few minutes we are going out with the hostel group to &#8220;street party in Lapa&#8221; night. It should be a fun night of samba and a different side of Rio than Copacobana.