---
title: Hoi An and Hue
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-05-10T10:03:09+00:00
url: /2010/05/10/hoi-an-and-hue/

---
Our next stop on the open bus ticket is Hoi An, in the middle of the country. It’s claim to fame is the over 300 custom-made clothing shops in the old town.  We’ve been told that we can get suits, dresses, shoes, and even bathing suits made to measure in less than 24 hours.  Hoi An is also famous for being the one of the only cities not completely destroyed in the American/ Vietnam War.

Our bus pulled into a hotel compound at 8am and it was already very hot.  Although our hotel welcoming party was very persuasive we decided to walk with some other passengers into the actual town.  Peter, the Scottish guy we’d met on the bus, found a hotel in the Old Town with a pool.  We all decided to seize the early morning and start our tailor shopping before other travelers got out.  We set out towards the market, completely overwhelmed by the number of tailor shops and people asking us to come inside.  Finally we started asking about prices and the quality of material and narrowed it down to a shop for Jacob and a shop (or 3) for me.  Peter got overwhelmed and left us to our shopping while he went to the market and settled in at a pub.  Jacob got a grey suit made and a dark grey overcoat, both with blue silk linings.  I ended up getting 4 dresses, a pair of nice pants and a yellow winter coat.  We took all day to walk around to the different shops and get measurements, so after the night bus and a day in the heat we were exhausted.

The next day was a bit of a repeat of the day before, going from one shop to another for our fittings and alterations. We just finished the last of the fittings by night and finished up our day with a cooking class.  The restaurant advertised a cooking class with recipes included, but it ended up being our cook preparing dishes while we looked on or chopped onions.  Luckily, our fellow cooking students were a pair of French Canadians who were equally as clueless as us.  After the brief class we ate the spring rolls we rolled and fried and enjoyed the other dishes our chef made for us, including a fish grilled in banana leaves, a beef and vegetable salad, and Hoi An’s specialty dish of white rose.

On Sunday we picked up the last of our altered clothes and packed up our new purchases in a box.  The post office told us it might be 3-4 months on a boat, so we might make it back before the Vietnamese clothes!  At 1pm we found Peter again and ended up together on the day bus to Hue, just 4 hours north of Hoi An.

By the time we got into town we decided to do our sightseeing while looking for places to eat and drink.  Along the main road we discovered a side street with more street stalls than glossy-menu restaurants, so we stopped in for grilled morning glory, Hue noodle soup, and grilled meats.  One of the wonderful things about each town we’ve been to is that each has it’s own beer.  Ho Chi Minh City has Siagon, Hoi An had Hoi An beer (how original) and Hue has Hue and Fantasy beers.  We sampled some of the beers at the equally creatively named bars- the DMZ (demilitarized zone) bar, Brown Eyes, Why Not? and Apocalypse Now bar.

Monday we did a speed tour of Hue city, opting not to go to see the DMZ (the real on this time, not the bar).  According to a few other travelers and the wise guidebook the remnants of the war are mostly craters, firebases, bunkers and a few possible unexploded land mines, which is a sight for only true history buffs or veterans.  In the city we walked around a bit more and headed to the citadel.  Before 1945 Hue had been the capital for the emperors of Vietnam and the citadel was both the fortress and the palace.  Some of the worst fighting in the Indochina War with France and the American War took place in the palace.  We could still see some parts of walls decaying and full of bullet holes while other parts of the citadel were completely rebuilt to match the emperor’s original palaces.  Unfortunately it was pouring rain throughout the day, so our tour of the citadel consisted of dashing from one covered area to another before we were on to the night bus.  From Hue we took the final leg of our open ticket bus up the country to Hanoi.