---
title: Singapore and Kuala Lumpur
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-04-12T09:03:14+00:00
url: /2010/04/12/singapore-and-kuala-lumpur/


---
On Maundy Thursday Jacob and I flew from Sydney to Singapore, making sure we ditched all of our gum before we got to the airport.  Because of an overbooking we were bumped up to “club world” class in the luxurious seats in the front of the plane.  We certainly were not going to complain!  It was a great change from all of our economy flights around Australia.

We are back in the land of the guidebook and I am very glad to once again have a reference with maps, histories, and recommendations.  We followed the suggestion to stay in Little India, which is just outside of the downtown area.  Our hotel was on the main road through the section of town, which provided great entertainment and a little noise at night.  Conveniently, there was an Indian restaurant downstairs where we tried out the ‘Bombay breakfasts’ and noodle soups.  We did hole up a bit in the hotel room reading, but we ventured out for a few sights and meals around the city. We sampled Indian and Chinese foods and had a surprisingly good French dinner down the street from a mosque and gilded Hindu temple in Little India.

On our last night in town we met up with Fengwei for a Chinese seafood dinner. Fengwei lived in Jacob’s dad’s house while he studied and taught at Northwestern and he now teaches in Singapore.  We had a great conversation over very messy crabs and shellfish.  The restaurant was right on the waterfront, facing all the large ships coming in and out of the harbor.  As it got dark we walked along the waterfront park where people were camping and having cookouts.

Early the next day we caught a bus from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.  The bus stopped to let us though Singapore departure and Malaysian immigration.  We arrived in the late afternoon heat and quickly picked a hotel nearby, which was a mistake because it ended up being noisy, cramped and a bit grungy.  The next day we checked out and hiked around the city towards the part of town known as the Golden Triangle.  It was quite a step up from our bus station dirt and crowd.  The hotel we found was like a palace compared to the last one and the street we chose was full of restaurants, shopping arcades and foot massage spas.  Jacob and I decided to give it a change and we got foot massages from fish.  The spa has big tanks of little fish that nibble on your feet and legs, presumably eating away the dead skin. It tickled more than anything, and all the fish felt like bubbles floating around my feet.  We also got a reflexology massages (from people).

Just like Singapore, KL has a Chinatown and Little India and we ate very well in the city.  I’ve recently discovered the joys of dumplings and dim sum, so all the Chinese street stalls were magical.  Around the back of our hotel was a narrow street filled with little food stalls clustered together with shared tables.  We shopped around and ordered dim sum from one person and Chinese vegetables from another and beer from a Jaz beer seller.

We attempted to see all the sights in one day, despite the heat.  It was a silly mistake because we ended up getting a little turned around after walking around the city.  We started the day at the Colonial District where the old English barracks and polo grounds still stand.  I always mock guidebooks for putting silly things on the map such as flagpoles or trees, but this flagpole was certainly big enough to merit a dot on the map of the area.  The museum I wanted to see was closed, so we bought water and attempted to walk to the towers.  We gave up and got a taxi to the KL tower, which has a viewing platform to look over at the twin Petronas towners.  The cab ride was tourist priced and we discovered we were only a few blocks away.  At the tower we decided not to go up since you had to buy a ridiculously priced ‘adventure’ package that included the elevator ride to the observation deck and other ludicrous touristy things like a pony ride or a ‘jungle walk.’ We got a few good photos from the outside of the tower anyways.

After hearing some news about the protests in Bangkok, Thailand, Jacob and I decided to change our around the world flights.  We spent the day around the Cathay Pacific office but we did get to change the flights without a fee and an authentic street stall lunch behind the building.  We are now flying to Vietnam and working out way through Laos, Cambodia and possibly the north of Thailand in May.  We had to cancel our flights to the Philippines but we are now planning to go to Myanmar (Burma) instead.