---
title: NOLA weekend
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-01-11T21:01:44+00:00
url: /2010/01/11/nola-weekend/

---
I went to New Orleans for a mini reunion and Molly&#8217;s birthday this past weekend.  Almost all of our group of 9 came in for the weekend from our new homes in Houston, Mobile, and Birmingham. I came in a day early, just in time to watch the National Championship with the rabid Bama fan, Jenny.   We went straight from the airport to the Rusty Nail in the warehouse district.  Apparently, the Rusty Nail is where the NOLA chapter of the Alabama alumni group meets and watches games, so I felt like I stepped out of NOLA directly into the heart of Tuscaloosa! Luckily for me, Jenny equipped me with a houndstooth headband since I realized I don&#8217;t own anything red.   We ate gator burgers, drank some Abita, and watched Bama win #13 in their books.  The bar had multiple tv screens, wooden bleachers, and they played all the fight songs on the sound system.  I felt a bit like an anthropologist studying a foreign tribe from within their village, but by the end of the game I was cheering along.  Exulted by the victory, Jenny predicted a great weekend.

Friday Jenny went to work and I rode the streetcar to campus to meet up with her for lunch.  We revisited some of my favorite Pad Thai at Bangkok Thai, which I will have to compare to the real deal.   For the rest of the afternoon I wandered campus and caught up with a few friends.  I had coffee with Eric, who is in grad school for international Development. Eric has researched and studied Malawi, so it was nice to &#8216;talk Africa&#8217; for a while.  Next up on my social calendar was Terri.  I heard all about Tulane news until after 5pm, or Boot O&#8217;Clock.   Jenny finished up with her work and we headed over to Boot happy hour for old time&#8217;s sake.  Molly arrived next, and Ali and Sam came by after their work.  We met up with Brooke and Jenn at Filepe&#8217;s to continue our former Friday ritual.   Sadly we were all tired from working and driving (or just bumming around for me) , and we resolved to meet up again the next day.

Saturday, Molly&#8217;s birthday, Molly and her boyfriend Josh went out for breakfast.  In the meantime we all got hungry and went to Crabby Jack&#8217;s for amazing po-boys.  I had the half and half (shrimp and oysters) with plenty of Crystal hot sauce. Amazing, as always.   After a coma-inducing lunch, we all headed over to Jenny&#8217;s apartment to meet up with Molly and Katie.  We lounged around for most of the afternoon, catching up and talked about the glory days.   Around 7.30pm we went to dinner at Mandena&#8217;s in Mid-City.  The typical New Orleans dished were fair- I was unimpressed with my seafood gumbo and Jenn&#8217;s &#8216;stuffed shrimp&#8217; were all filler and no seafood.  Next was the main event of the night, Pat O&#8217;Brien&#8217;s piano bar.  After a little time in line, we got a table and set to requesting songs.  Of course, we told them to sing Happy Birthday to Molly, and we dedicated a classic 80s song to an obnoxious group of Tulane boys.  By the end of the night we were all singing along and dancing in the aisles.  Molly even met another Molly and they were instantly friends.

On our way out Molly and I just had to visit Ali Baba&#8217;s, the best gyro shop in the world.  Ever since eating gyros and lamb in Greece and Turkey I joked that I would go back and tell &#8220;Mr. Baba&#8221; that his gyros are the best in the world.  Mission accomplished.

Sunday morning we were all moving slowly, and we converged again over brunch at the Trolley Stop Cafe on St. Charles.  From there Brooke and Jenn drove back to Houston, and Katie and Molly headed back to Alabama.  Jenny and I caught a NCIS marathon and I learned the finer points of &#8216;going into the cave&#8217;,  Jenny&#8217;s hibernation technique.    Sunday night Jenny and I went out to Sushi Bro&#8217;s with my Irby suitemate Adrienne. Another NOLA restaurant checked off my list of hopeful dining locations.  Afterwards we went to see Jose and the Reed boys, but we didn&#8217;t last too late since everyone was still exhausted from our escapades on Saturday night.

I said goodbye to my wonderful hostess and NOLA early this morning.  I&#8217;m back in Nashville for 2 more days before I set out again around the world.  I hoping to get a some visits to both sets of grandparents (with more great American food), another travel story session with Lauren Gray, and quality time with mom.