---
title: Ho Chi Minh City and Nha Trang
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-05-06T04:48:53+00:00
url: /2010/05/05/ho-chi-minh-city-and-nha-trang/

---
On April 30 Jacob and I hit mainland Southeast Asia. We flew from Yangon, Myanmar to Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam via Singapore and Hong Kong. From now until June 4 we will travel overland in a big loop up the coast of Vietnam, into Laos, down to Cambodia and back to HCMC.  
Our first few days in HCMC were low-key. With the help of the trusty guidebook we found a guesthouse in a popular backpacker part of town. Our guesthouse was luckily not in the Lonely Liar, so it was cheaper and less crowded than others in the same alley.  For meals we never made it much further than our little street- we kept going back to a little street stall down the road.  After a few restaurant dinners at popular chains like Pho 2000 we discovered that meals were equally good, if not better, on the street.

On Sunday we got our act together and went to museums. Jacob and I each hopped on a motorcycle taxi and threaded our way through the thick crowds of other motorcycles on the roads and sidewalks.  First we saw the Ho Chi Minh City Museum, which was a decent display of the city’s environmental and economic history.  It didn’t really hold our interest well since the layout was a bit strange, so we walked to the War Remembrance Museum.  This museum was much more intense, mainly detailing how horrific the American/ Vietnam War truly was.  There were displays of everything from new articles, tanks and airplanes and personal accounts of war atrocities.  The most chilling part of the museum was the entire half of the first flood dedicated to the human toll from Agent Orange and chemical defoliants.  Most of the photos of adults and children were from the late 1970s, but even people born in the 1990s in the US and Vietnam are suffering serious birth defects and miscarriages.  Along the outer wall of the museum were recreated “tiger cells” where prisoners of war were kept.

At night we looked around the night market at Benh Than Market, which has a different selection than the goods inside during the day.  We didn’t have much luck at night, so we came back the next day.  Inside the market there were aisles and aisles of knock-off purses, clothes, souvenirs, and even food stalls.  We bargained and haggled with several shop owners and walked away with some chopstick holders, a handmade purse, and a lifetime supply of wooden chopsticks.   All in all it was a good shopping excursion.

Monday night we got an ‘open tour’ bus from HCMC to Hanoi, which makes stops along the way.  We can get off and on the bus as many times as we want, as long as we call ahead for our next leg of the trip.  From HCMC we took the overnight bus to Nha Trang, a 12 hour drive up the coast.  Our bus didn’t have the normal rows of seats, but 2 levels of narrow beds in 3 rows.  Jacob and I were the last ones on the bus, so we were stuck in the far back of a shelf of 5 beds sardined together.  We slept moderately well and arrived at 7am.  We tagged along with 3 Canadians guys who had already booked a room at a hotel mainly just to avoid the throng of men trying to lead us to a hotel for commission.  We made plans to meet up with the guys for dinner and found another hotel where we could sleep most of the day away.

Nha Trang was a typical beach town.  It’s 3 main streets that ran parallel to the beach and were filled with bars, restaurants, dive shops and travel agencies.  We spent most of our time walking around the streets and laying on the beach.  On the first day the water was dark and filled with trash, but when I went out to the beach on the second day the strong wind must have swept out the trash and made the water look emerald green.  After 2 full days of the beach we were ready to move on to Hoi An, the capital of custom-clothing in Vietnam.