---
title: The Bolivian Border
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-02-05T20:42:49+00:00
url: /2010/02/05/the-bolivian-border/

---
With a few ill-timed busses, we ended up not getting in and around Bolivia as quickly as we thought. Monday we missed an earlier bus to the Argentinean border town La Quiaca, and our afternoon bus didn’t get in until 11pm.  We ate a late dinner above the terminal and our friendly waiter gave us directions to the closest hostel.  I wasn’t prepared for the cold and rainy weather at altitude, and we gave up our plans of crossing the border and spending the night in Bolivia.  On our way out of the bus station 2 backpackers asked us (in Spanish) if we knew of a hostel.  We answered (in English) that we were walking towards one and the 4 of us set off into the rainy little town.  Luckily, the 2 girls were from the Basque region of Spain, so they helped us get more directions and explained our passports to the hostel owner.  In return we attempted to explain to the owner that they are technically Spaniards, but don’t really consider themselves Spanish.  We all got rooms that turned out to be amazingly nice considering our last minute arrival.

The next morning we got up early to cross into Bolivia.  Our hostel owner was very nice and ate breakfast with us as we tried to communicate with our small overlap in language.  He pointed us toward the border and told us to “follow the people.”  We took it a bit too literally and crossed over on the bridge for porters between the countries.  Jacob and I were the only gringos, backpackers, and people without huge loads of goods on our shoulders.  The porters ran-walked back and forth between the borders, but a nice guard let us take the stairs down to the real point of immigration on the lower bridge.  I stood in line while Jacob got the entry forms and asked an agent about our specific information.  Right as I got close to the front of the line, Jacob and the agent came back. The agent pulled us out of line and took us to his window, which sped up our immigration.  We crossed in less than an hour, which was far less than other travelers told us.

Once in the Bolivian border town of Villazon, we changed money and went to book a bus.  We hoped to make a bit of a circuit in the south of Bolivia to see salt flats, the highest city in the world, and an old mining town.  At the ticket window we realized there were no direct busses to our desired destinations, only connections that would take a day each.  Because of the time we’d lost already and the possible day layovers, we had to choose between Potosi (the highest city in the world), Sucre (the historic capital), the silver mines outside Potosi and the salt flats at Uyuni. The most direct route was to Uyuni, via Tupiza, at 2pm and our ticket salesman assured us that we could make a 5.30pm bus to Uyuni all in the same day.  After waiting again for most of the day our bus was at least an hour late.  To add to it, when the bus pulled in the terminal the side mirror hit a guy in the head, leaving a huge gash across his forehead.   We all loaded up and watched as the police whisked the guy into a car to the hospital.  The bus drove around the block, then stopped to let the injured guy’s girlfriend took their bags off the bus, then put them back on.  Our driver made an announcement saying something about someone hurt and waiting.  Suddenly the guy’s girlfriend and the injured guy got on the bus! Apparently he’d gotten the fastest 3 stitches in the world, and we were on our way to Tupiza.  We definitely missed our later bus though.

We arrived in Tupiza around 6.30pm and bought bus tickets to Uyuni for the next morning. We stayed at an unremarkable hostel and ate at a strangely kitschy restaurant called “the Alamo.”