---
title: 134 meter Bungee
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-03-12T02:41:07+00:00

---
On our first day in Queenstown, New Zealand Jacob and I signed ourselves up for the A J Hackett “Thrillogy”.  A J Hackett was apparently the first person, and now company, to bungee jump.  Our first jump of the day was also the first-ever bungee jump site at tThe Kawarau Bridge.  The bridge is over 43 meters above a river, and no longer the primary bridge for cars so it’s become a tourist site as well as a bungee jump for crazy people like us.

Our bus dropped us off at the huge bungee center- the building next to the bridge had a gift shop, a café, historical films about the invention of the bungee, and the weigh-in desks.  Our guide met us at the door and quickly talked us through the process of weighing in, preparing for the jump and the technique for either getting dunked in the river or staying dry.  At the weigh –in desk they gave us ‘boarding passes’ with our vital details and they wrote our weights on our hand in red marker. Luckily it was in kilos so at least the numbers are smaller than pounds.

Next we walked out to the platform on the bridge, handed over our boarding passes, the guides strapped our lower legs with bungee cables and harnesses, and helped us waddle out to the edge.   Jacob jumped first, hoping to touch the water but he came about a foot short of the river.  I went next and got a little intimidated looking down on the river below me.  The countdown went 3- 2- 1 but I waited an extra second or so before I hopped off the edge, arms out like a diver. The fall was very quick.  I didn’t have much time to think anything other than “I trust these ropes so I won’t die” and to scream.  At the bottom, 2 guys on a raft came out to me, handed me a pole to grab onto, upside down, and pulled me down into the raft.  I met Jacob on the stairs and we walked back up to the base to look at our photos and video.  The photos were actually very great- we ended up buying a pack of each.  We now have some great proof of us preparing for the jump, on the edge, just as we jump out, mid-flight and dangling at the end of the bungee.

Back on another bus to the next 2 events Jacob and I met 2 fellow jumpers, James and Mark.  We immediately bonded by rolling our eyes at one of the other jumpers.  This guy was one of those Americans who should not be allowed to leave the country- he was loud, cocky, and not nearly as cool as he thought.  Our bus drove us up and up to a desolate area on the top of a ridge of steep hills.  Our bungee jump-off points were 2 structures suspended over 2 deep valleys by an intricate system of wires, bridges, and cables.  Our next event was the Nevis bungee- a 134 meter drop from the suspended platform down into a valley with a shallow river.  The scariest part of it all was actually the little gondola ride across to the platform from the station on solid land.  The freezing wind picked up and rocked us back and forth as we had to shout to hear each other.  Apparently winter is coming earlier than expected.

Once in the platform, the guides strapped the support harnesses to our legs and took us in size order.  One of the guides tried to guess where we were from, and guessed that Mark the Irish one was American.  Jacob and I confessed to being the Americans and jokingly apologizing for the annoying American from the bus.  Of course, Jacob was the calmest of the bunch but he went first while the rest of us got freaked out by watching him through the glass slits in the floor.  The guides gave us rapid-fire instructions about jumping and pulling a cord after the jump then counted Jacob down very quickly.  When the guide said “321JUMP!” Jacob wasn’t prepared, almost jumped, then came back in. “Count me down again!” This time he jumped out perfectly down, down, down.  Apparently the part we all missed in the gondola ride was to pull the red cord to flip you upright as the guides crank you back up to the platform.  They tried to yell to Jacob to pull the cord, but he couldn’t hear them and came all the way up upside down.  I watched with one of the guides, and laughed as he tired to wiggle the cord to get Jacob to pull the red cord.  “It’s like he’s not even trying!” he said in frustration.  But, we all learned what we should do now thanks to Jacob’s jump.

I was the last person to go after all the other guys came over in a gondola.  As the guide strapped me in she nodded towards the irritating American and said “is that the guy you were talking about? It was pretty obvious!”  Clearly his annoyingness was obvious to all.

Now it was my turn to get strapped in, waddle out on the ledge, and countdown to jump off.  This time I was determined to do 2 things- actually jump out rather than half-fall like my last bungee and remember to pull the red cord.  I also attempted not to scream, but as I began to fly towards the earth and feel nothing but the wind around me I just had to scream.  The fall was so long that I had more time to stop feeling like I might die and I was aware of the absolute free fall until the end of the bungee cord yanked me back up at the end of the fall.  I managed to pull the red cord and enjoyed the scenery right-side up on the long ride back to the platform.

Jacob and I took the scary gondola back to the station on solid ground.  We watched our video and looked at pictures while we waited for everyone to finish.  Mark, James, the irritating American and a few others were all up to do the Arc swing, “the highest swing in the world.”  It was much like the bungee, expect that we had harnesses with built in sitting parts so when we fell out from the platform we swung back and forth across the valley.  The annoying American went first, and just as he was smiling for his friend’s photo the guide released the swing without counting.  We all laughed uproariously clearly another guide found him equally as annoying.  Jacob and I tried it tandem and got harnessed on together, facing out from the platform.  The first part was a free fall like the bungee and we bumped into each other clumsily and ended up sideways at one point.  We righted as the swing caught us, and we had a long time to swing back and forth over the valley.   The most nerve-wracking part was slowing getting pulled back up and towards the platform, realizing just how far we’d fallen.  I was glad to be back in the platform and I felt properly bungeed out for the day.

Back in Queenstown James, Mark, Jacob and I were ravenous at 2.30.  James suggested the ‘best pizza in town’ at Winnies.  It lived up to it’s hype.  Not only was it amazingly good, but the chef brought out one of the pizzas with a tiny bit of the crust folded over. We wouldn’t have noticed except that he apologized for it and brought out another small pizza to make up for it!  Properly stuffed, we took a mid-afternoon sleep and reconvened at the movie theater to see Shutter Island.  Mark hated it because he thought it was a scary movie, but the rest of us really liked it.  Mom, you won’t like it.