---
title: Hanoi
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-05-13T08:56:48+00:00
url: /2010/05/13/hanoi/


---
Our final Vietnamese overnight bus arrived in the capital, Hanoi, around 8am. The usual crowd of hotel promoters met us on the rainy sidewalk but we took cover inside the shop to avoid them and the rain. Inside we met another American lady who had already booked a hostel in the old town, so we shared a taxi with her and ended up at the Atlantic Hotel also.  We spent most of Tuesday readjusting to a new city and catching up on sleep.

Wednesday we walked around the city all day, wandering through the hundreds of street stalls and small shops in each district.  In the old town each section of road has shops offering the same type of products- the shoe street, the DVD corner, metal work area, and so on.  Not only were there huge varieties of things for sale, but interesting things for sale also.  We drove past a stall selling fresh dog meat and wandered into another shop that sold fake tags for designer clothes like Puma, Lacoste, and D&G. In between our tour of shops I mailed some postcards and we strolled around the lake at the heart of the city.  Jacob’s ongoing search for patches finally ended when he and our nice hotel guy hunted for all the missing country patches.  They found flag patches for all 35+ countries we’ve visited since June.  Now Jacob’s bag is unmistakable and quite the conversation starter.

Wednesday night Jacob surprised me by celebrating my birthday a few days early.  While he was out with his patches Jacob snuck across the street and ordered a cake and while we went out to dinner the hotel staff brought it into the room.  After dinner Jacob and I ate the slightly strange looking green and yellow- icing cake.  A few minutes later there was a knock at the door- the hotel staff brought me 11 roses once they found out it was my birthday!

Sadly the next day I had to give my flowers back to the hotel since we were off to visit Ha Long Bay.  The hotel let us store our backpacks in the storage room so we could travel lightly on our 3 day tour and then come back to the hotel before our flight to Laos.