---
title: La Paz
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-02-09T22:34:17+00:00
---
When our night bus arrived in La Paz, it was early in the morning and the city was covered in fog. Our bus came in over the moutains that surround the city, and we had a great view of the buildings emerging from the fog and the people of La Paz begining their days. From the bus station we caught a cab to <a href="http://www.lokihostel.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Loki</a> hostel, which is one of the more famous ´party hostels´ in South America. After so many busses and marginally decent hostels it was nice to get to a hostel with hot water, internet, social space, and plenty of things to do. We layed low and caught up with some much-needed sleep.

Last week I got a great email from David´s girlfriend, Renee. It was full of great advice on the top sights and a bit of history on each part. She spent a year in Bolivia but sadly we only had time to see the towns on the way to La Paz.

In the city we went to the Witches´Market, which sells mostly the traditional blankets, sweaters, scarves, and hats that locals wear and all the tourists buy. The strange thing about the market is that they also sell cactus and dried baby llama bodies. According to Renee the llamas are good luck for selling houses. We didn&#8217;t get any llamas but we each got an al paca sweater.

We walked around the San Francisco cathedral, which was built in the 1500s, the presidential plaza, and along the large main boulevard of Santa Cruz. We also ate well- both Bolivian fare and international. In the last fee days we&#8217;ve found a Japanese, Thai, and steak restaurants as well as a fee hole-in-the-wall kitchens serving tradional soups and chicken and rice dishes.

Sunday we watched the Superbowl in our hostel&#8217;s bar. We were the only Americans, so it was fun to explain football, the Saints, and the Superbowl extravigance to Austrailian, French, and English friends.  We ate nachos and french fries and drank beers to be properly American. The bar played along by playing only American music (Bob Fylan, Tom Petty, and every some with the word &#8220;America&#8221; in it) and they put American whiskey on special for happy hour. The first quarter was torture, and I was worried that being out of the country was not enough good luck for the Saints but by the half the Saints were proving their worth. Jacob and I even cheered the Who Dat cheer after the first touchdown. After a win seemed clear, I begged the bar staff to play When the Saints go Marching In on my iPod and Jacob and I did a little second line in our part of the bar. It was a great experience but nothing like the party in NOLA that night.

Monday I was a little worried about my knee, so we found a doctor through our new hostel. He came to the hostel around midday, and made sure I could fully use my leg. It is still quite swollen and the bright burise colors have faded to a sik green and yellow in the middle. I still have distinctive teeth marks and a giant purple ring. After a week I thougt it should be looked at, and the doctor reassured me it was fine. He diagnose it a a hematoma ( a large swollen injury) and gave me some prescriptions for the swelling. I hope it will be back to normal soon, although it is a great story to tell.