---
title: Football Finals
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-07-11T14:49:14+00:00
url: /2010/07/11/football-finals/

---
Today is the final for the 2010 Fifa World Cup in South Africa.  I’ve started counting how many times the South African announcers say either the entire name or the African World Cup in each game.  I usually give up and stop counting when I get above 30 in the first half!

It’s been a great tournament, with a few bumps and errors in an otherwise series of great football/ soccer.  Most of the fans’ biggest complaints are with FIFA, the governing body of soccer.  Apparently they believe in the ‘purity of the game’ and want games on every level to be the same.  In other words the Fifa president thinks 5 year olds should play on professional level goals and professional games should not involve any technology beyond the referees’ eyes.  I think all fans agree that it’s a bit silly when people watching at home can clearly see denied goals, erroneous penalties and missed calls on replay.  Fifa doesn’t allow the stadiums to show replays, so referees and fans watching live don’t see what happened until after the game.  In our lodge in Kruger we collectively solved Fifa’s problems- First we decided they should use the mysterious 4<sup>th</sup> official to call in results of the booth replay, much like college football.  Next, they can use technology in the goals, players and the ball to definitively determine off-sides, goals, out of bounds and so on.  Lastly, we thought goals blocked involving a penalty call would be given to the team.  For example, Ghana’s goal in the semifinals was blocked by a handball, a penalty, but Ghana did not get the goal back and they eventually lost in overtime.  One alternative thought was that instead of the technology each coach could challenge 1 call each game to ensure that one outrageous call might not change the course of the game.  Now, we just need Fifa to adopt our proposal!

Some other interesting action has actually been off the field.

The most interesting team to me was North Korea.  Considering how repressive and secretive the government can be I was surprised that they sent a team and about 50 fans.  Their team was ranked 106 in the world- Brazil was 1 and South Africa was 90 for comparison. But it turned out that the 50 people were actually paid Chinese nationals “supporting their Communist cousins.”  We also heard a rumor that 3 of the North Korean players disappeared during the tournament.  We heard it on the South African news but never heard anything more, and more tellingly never heard any reports from North Korea. Jacob and I immediately figured that the players snuck away and defected while they had the chance.

Vuvuzelas. Those loud, irritating plastic horns are everywhere.  People blow them every game day and constantly in the stadiums.  It is funny to see non- South Africans attempt to blow them compared to locals.  Just like during the national anthems, you can quickly tell the ‘real’ national fans from local fans!

Fifa and South Africa would have you believe that this tournament is perfect and without any logistical issues. Not so! The stadiums and the road were at least completed.  The stadium in Rustenburg, about 2 hours outside of Johannesburg, was by far the worst planning and crowd control I’ve ever seen.  First of all, it was about 3K from the actual city and everyone was required to park and ride on the official Fifa busses.  The busses ran well going into game since everyone arrived early and there weren’t any crowds.  After the first game in the stadium people flocked out and fought over the few busses waiting to take people back. We went to the second game and they remedied the situation by putting up fences in a funnel shape to heard people to the busses.  We waited for about 20 minutes in a huge mass of people and we felt like cattle being led to the slaughter.  Soccer City in Johannesburg was slightly better run except that we had to walk about a mile or 3K around the parking lots and over a narrow bridge to get in and out.  By our last game in the stadium they had at least opened up a new route that alleviated the chokepoints. Maybe by the final tonight the stadium planning will actually be perfect.

Another interesting things was that all the big, popular teams didn’t last as long as everyone thought.  It seems like all the merchandise is for the famous European and African teams.  Yet England, France, Italy, South Africa and Ivory Coast didn’t make it past the round of 16 while teams like Japan, Germany, Ghana and the Netherlands surprised most people.  It won’t be an African team in the African World Cup but at least the winner will be a team that has never won before.

According to <a href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EU_GERMANY_OCTOPUS_ORACLE_WORLD_CUP?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Paul the Octopus</a>, Spain will be tonight’s winner.  We will find out!