---
title: Sydney
author: mvaltie
date: 2010-03-21T08:11:40+00:00

---
Sydney

On St. Patrick’s Day we spent our last night in New Zealand with Jon and Melissa Little, cousins of a good family friend.  Very early the next day we flew from Auckland to Sydney, Australia.  I finally got the first stamps in my brand new permanent passport.   At least I won’t run out of pages for the rest of the trip!

After some searching and calls from the airport, we found a hostel in the central part of the city near Chinatown.  On our first night we met several other travelers at the hostel’s social hour and outing.  Apparently one of our hostel staff herds backpackers to nearby bars for a bonus based on the number of people she brings out, plus drink specials for us.  Our little group seemed to be the only people out at the time but we happily monopolized the dance floor all night.

The next day Jacob and I explored the city on foot for a few hours.  In the afternoon we caught a free shuttle bus to the Rocks and the harbor, the site of the famous opera house and all the tourist activities.  With luck we caught a tour boat that sailed in just a few minutes for half price and a free drink.  What timing.  We filed onboard and got great seats at the front of the boat.  For an hour we sailed along the harbor and saw the opera, the bridge, the beautiful homes along the water, and Darling Harbour around the corner from the main harbor.   We got dropped at Darling, conveniently, since it was closer to our hostel and had the aquarium. With more good timing we made it to the Wildlife Center and Aquarium before they closed.

We went to the Wildlife center first and ran up to the top deck to see koalas before it closed.  They were hanging out in the trees, sleepy after their eucalypts feeding.  Right below the koala area were tons kangaroos eating also.  There must have been 10 kangaroos eating and lounging around, enjoying the attention.  In the wildlife area we also saw wallabies (mini kangaroos), kookaburra, emu, and all sorts of birds and small creatures.  Next door at the aquarium were even more sea creatures- turtles, sharks, fish, corals, sting rays, and eels. In 3 different sections there were big tanks of fish from the reef, deep ocean or fresh water with tunnels underneath. We could walk underneath the tanks of sharks and rays while manatees and fish swim all around us.  I tried to remember all the varieties of fish and sharks for our trip to the reef in a few days.

Jacob and I caught the sky rail back to our part of town, which was a nice scenic end of the day.  By luck we came upon a Chinese/ Tiwanese restaurant with the “tastiest dumplings in the world.”  Jacob is quite the dumpling lover, so we just had to check it out.  It had quite the waiting line, but we got to check out the menu and pre-order while we waited.  As soon as we sat down we got some of our dished, which ended up being far too much food.  The dumplings were incredibly good and we plan to go back when we fly out of Australia in a few weeks.